<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Days of Heaven Upon Earth</title>
      <author><name reg="Simpson, Rev. A. B.">Rev. A. B. Simpson</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>March 27, 2009</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">28416</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="el"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2009-03-27">March 27, 2009</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Robin Monks, Sea View Full Gospel Church Library
            (http://seaviewministries.com), David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Days of Heaven Upon Earth</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">A Year Book of Scripture Texts</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">And Living Truths</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Rev. A. B. Simpson</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Christian Alliance Pub. Co.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">3611 Fourteenth Avenue,</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Brooklyn, N. Y.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Copyright, December, 1897</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Days Of Heaven</head>

<lg>
<l>The days of heaven are peaceful days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Still as yon glassy sea;</l>
<l>So calm, so still in God, our days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As the days of heaven would be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>The days of heaven are holy days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>From sin forever free;</l>
<l>So cleansed and kept our days, O Lord,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As the days of heaven would be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>The days of heaven are happy days.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sorrow they never see;</l>
<l>So full of gladness all our days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As the days of heaven would be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>The days of heaven are healthful days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>They feed on life's fair tree;</l>
<l>So feeding on Thy strength, O Christ,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Our days as heaven may be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Walk with us, Lord, thro' all the days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And let us walk with Thee;</l>
<l>Till as Thy will is done in heaven,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>On earth so shall it be.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 1.</head>

<p>
<q>Redeeming the time</q> (Eph. v. 16).
</p>

<p>
Two little words are found in the Greek
version here. They are translated
<q><foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>ton kairon</foreign></q> in the revised version,
<q>Buying up for yourselves the opportunity.</q>
The two words <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>ton kairon</foreign> mean, literally,
the opportunity.
</p>

<p>
They do not refer to time in general, but to a
special point of time, a juncture, a crisis, a
moment full of possibilities and quickly passing
by, which we must seize and make the
best of before it has passed away.
</p>

<p>
It is intimated that there are not many such
moments of opportunity, because the days are
evil; like a barren desert, in which, here and
there, you find a flower, pluck it while you can;
like a business opportunity which comes a few
times in a life-time; buy it up while you have
the chance. Be spiritually alert; be not unwise,
but understanding what the will of God is.
<q>Walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
buying up for yourselves the opportunity.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sometimes it is a moment of time to be
saved; sometimes a soul to be led to Christ;
sometimes it is an occasion for love; sometimes
for patience: sometimes for victory over temptation
and sin. Let us redeem it.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='008'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 2.</head>

<p>
<q>I will cause you to walk in My statutes</q> (Eze. xxxvi.
27).
</p>

<p>
The highest spiritual condition is one
where life is spontaneous and flows
without effort, like the deep floods of
Ezekiel's river, where the struggles of
the swimmer ceased, and he was borne by the
current's resistless force.
</p>

<p>
So God leads us into spiritual conditions and
habits which become the spontaneous impulses
of our being, and we live and move in the fulness
of the divine life.
</p>

<p>
But these spiritual habits are not the outcome
of some transitory impulse, but are often
slowly acquired and established. They begin,
like every true habit, in a definite act of will,
and they are confirmed by the repetition of that
act until it becomes a habit. The first stages
always involve effort and choice. We have to
take a stand and hold it steadily, and after we
have done so a certain time, it becomes second
nature, and carries us by its own force.
</p>

<p>
The Holy Spirit is willing to form such habits
in every direction of our Christian life, and
if we will but obey Him in the first steppings
of faith, we will soon become established in
the attitude of obedience, and duty will be delight.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 3.</head>

<p>
<q>Watch and pray</q> (Matt. xxvi. 41).
</p>

<p>
We need to watch for prayers as well
as for the answers to our prayers.
It needs as much wisdom to pray
rightly as it does faith to receive the
answers to our prayers.
</p>

<p>
We met a friend the other day, who had been
in years of darkness because God had failed to
answer certain prayers, and the result had been
a state bordering on infidelity.
</p>

<p>
A very few moments were sufficient to convince
this friend that these prayers had been
entirely unauthorized, and that God had never
promised to answer such prayers, and they
were for things which this friend should have
accomplished himself, in the exercise of ordinary
wisdom.
</p>

<p>
The result was deliverance from a cloud of
unbelief which was almost wrecking a Christian
life. There are some things about which
we do not need to pray, as much as to take the
light which God has already given.
</p>

<p>
Many persons are asking God to give them
peculiar signs, tokens and supernatural intimations
of His will. Our business is to use
the light He has given, and then He will give
whatever more we need.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Blessed is the man that walketh not</q> (Ps. i. 1).
</p>

<p>
Three things are notable about this
man:
</p>

<p>
1. His company. <q>He walketh not
in the counsel of the ungodly, nor
standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in
the seat of the scornful.</q>
</p>

<p>
2. His reading and thinking. <q>His delight
is in the law of the Lord, and in His law doth
he meditate day and night.</q>
</p>

<p>
3. His fruitfulness. <q>And he shall be like
a tree planted by the rivers of water, that
bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf
also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth
shall prosper.</q>
</p>

<p>
The river is the Holy Ghost; the planting, the
deep, abiding life in which, not occasionally,
but habitually, we absorb the Holy Spirit; and
the fruit is not occasional, but continual, and
appropriate to each changing season.
</p>

<p>
His life is also prosperous, and his spirit
fresh, like the unfading leaf. Such a life must
be happy. Indeed, happiness is a matter of
spiritual conditions. Put a sunbeam in a cellar
and it must be bright. Put a nightingale in
the darkest midnight, and it must sing.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 5.</head>

<p>
<q>I know him that he will do the law</q> (Gen. xviii. 19).
</p>

<p>
God wants people that He can depend
upon. He could say of Abraham, <q>I
know him, that the Lord may bring
upon Abraham all that He hath spoken.</q>
God can be depended upon; He wants us
to be just as decided, as reliable, as stable. This
is just what faith means. God is looking for
men on whom He can put the weight of all His
love, and power, and faithful promises. When
God finds such a soul there is nothing He will
not do for him. God's engines are strong enough
to draw any weight we attach to them. Unfortunately
the cable which we fasten to the
engine is often too weak to hold the weight of
our prayer, therefore God is drilling us, disciplining
us, and training us to stability and
certainty in the life of faith. Let us learn our
lessons, and let us stand fast.
</p>

<lg>
<l>God has His best things for the few</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Who dare to stand the test;</l>
<l>God has his second choice for those</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Who will not have His best.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Give me, O Lord, Thy highest choice,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Let others take the rest.</l>
<l>Their good things have no charm for me,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>For I have got Thy best.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 6.</head>

<p>
<q>The body is not one member, but many</q> (I. Cor. xii. 14).
</p>

<p>
We have a friend who has a phonograph
for his correspondence. It
consists of two parts. One is a
simple and wonderful apparatus,
whose sensitive cylinders receive the tones and
then give them out again, word for word,
through the hearing tube. The other part is a
common little box that stands under the table,
and does nothing but supply the power through
connecting wires.
</p>

<p>
Now, the little box might insist upon being
the phonograph, and doing the talking; but if
it should, it would not only waste its own life
but destroy the life of its partner.
</p>

<p>
Its sole business is to supply power to the
phonograph, while the latter is to do the talking.
So some of us are called to be voices to
speak for God to our fellow-men, others are
forces to sustain them, by our holy sympathy
and silent prayer. (Some of us are little dynamos
under the table, while others are phonographs that speak
aloud the messages of heaven.)
</p>

<p>
Let each of us be true to our God-given
ministry, and when the day comes our work
will be weighed and the rewards distributed.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 7.</head>

<p>
<q>Now unto Him that is able to keep you from stumbling</q>
(Jude 24).
</p>

<p>
This is a most precious promise. The
revised translation is both accurate
and suggestive. It is not merely from
falling that He wants to keep us, but
from even the slightest stumbling.
</p>

<p>
We are told of Abraham that he staggered
not at the promise. God wants us to walk so
steadily that there will not even be a quiver in
the line of His regiments as they face the foe.
It is the little stumblings of life that most discourage
and hinder us, and most of these
stumblings are over trifles. Satan would much
rather knock us down with a feather than with
an Armstrong gun. It is much more to his
honor and keen delight to defeat a child of
God by some flimsy trifle than by some great
temptation.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, let us watch, in these days, against
the orange peels that trip us on our pathway,
the little foxes that destroy the vines, and the
dead flies that mar, sometimes, a whole vessel
of precious ointment. <q>Trifles make perfection,</q>
and as we get farther on, in our Christian
life, God will hold us much more closely
to obedience in things that seem insignificant.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 8.</head>

<p>
<q>It is I, be not afraid</q> (Mark vi. 50).
</p>

<p>
Someone tells of a little child with some
big story of sorrow upon its little heart,
flying to its mother's arms for comfort,
and intending to tell her the story of
its trouble; but as that mother presses it to
her bosom and pours out her love, it soon becomes
so occupied with her and the sweetness
of her affection that it forgets to tell its story,
and in a little while even the memory of the
trouble is forgotten. It has just been loved
away, and she has taken its place in the heart
of the little one.
</p>

<p>
This is the way God comforts us Himself.
<q>It is I, be not afraid,</q> is His reassuring word.
The circumstances are not altered, but He
Himself comes in their place, and satisfies
every need of our being, and we forget all
things in His sweet presence, as He becomes
our all in all.
</p>

<lg>
<l>I am breathing out my sorrow</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>On Thy kind and loving breast;</l>
<l>Breathing in Thy joy and comfort,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Breathing in Thy peace and rest.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>I am breathing out my longings</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In Thy listening, loving ear;</l>
<l>I am breathing in Thy answer,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Stilling every doubt and fear.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 9.</head>

<p>
<q>Not as I will, but as Thou wilt</q> (Matt. xxvi. 39).
</p>

<p>
<q>To will and do of His good pleasure</q> (Phil. ii. 13).
</p>

<p>
There are two attitudes in which our
will should be given to God.
</p>

<p>
First. We should have the surrendered
will. This is where we must all
begin, by yielding up to God our natural will,
and having Him possess it.
</p>

<p>
But next, He wants us to have the victorious
will. As soon as He receives our will in
honest surrender, He wants to put His will
into it and make it stronger than ever for Him.
It is henceforth no longer our will, but His
will. And having yielded to His choice and
placed itself under His direction, He wants to
put into it all the strength and intensity of His
own great will and make us positive, forceful,
victorious and unmovable, even as Himself.
<q>Not My will, but Thine be done.</q> That is
the first step. <q>Father, I will that they whom
Thou hast given Me, be with Me.</q> That is
the second attitude. Both are divine; both are
right; both are necessary to our right living
and successful working for God.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 10.</head>

<p>
<q>Charity doth not behave itself unseemly</q> (I. Cor.
xiii. 5).
</p>

<p>
In the dress of a Hindu woman, her graceful
robe is fastened upon her person entirely
by means of a single knot. The
long strip of cloth is wound around her
person so as to fall in graceful folds like a made
garment, and the end is fastened by a little
knot, and the whole thing hangs by that single
fastening. If that were loosed the robe
would fall. And so in the spiritual life, our
habits of grace are likened unto garments; and
it is also true that the garment of love, which is
the beautiful adorning of the child of God, is
entirely fastened by little <emph>nots</emph>.
</p>

<p>
If you will read with care the thirteenth
chapter of I. Corinthians, you will find that
most of the qualities of love are purely negative.
<q>Love envieth not, love vaunteth not
itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave herself
rudely, seeketh not her own, is not provoked,
thinketh no evil.</q> Here are <q><emph>nots</emph></q> enough
to hold on our spiritual wardrobe. Here are
reasons enough to explain the failure of so
many, and the reason why they walk naked,
or with rent garments, and others see their
shame. Let us look after the <emph>nots</emph>.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 11.</head>

<p>
<q>Hold fast till I come</q> (Rev. ii. 25).
</p>

<p>
The other day we asked a Hebrew friend
how it was that his countrymen were
so successful in acquiring wealth.
<q>Ah,</q> said he, <q>we do not make more
money than other people, but we keep more.</q>
Beloved, let us look out this day for spiritual
pickpockets and spiritual leakage. Let us <q>lose
nothing of what we have wrought, but receive
a full reward</q>; and, as each day comes and
goes, let us put away in the savings bank of
eternity its treasures of grace and victory, and
so be conscious from day to day that something
real and everlasting is being added to our
eternal fortune.
</p>

<p>
It may be but a little, but if we only economize
all that God gives us, and pass it on to
His keeping, when the close shall come we
shall be amazed to see how much the accumulated
treasures of a well spent life have laid up
on high, and how much more He has added to
them by His glorious investment of the life
committed to His keeping.
</p>

<p>
Oh, how the days are telling! Oh, how
precious these golden hours will seem sometime!
God help us to make the most of them now.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 12.</head>

<p>
<q>Ask and it shall be given you</q> (Matt. vii. 7).
</p>

<p>
We must receive, as well as ask. We
must take the place of believing,
and recognize ourselves as in it. A
friend was saying, <q>I want to get
into the will of God,</q> and this was the answer:
<q>Will you step into the will of God? And
now, are you in the will of God?</q> The question
aroused a thought that had not come before.
</p>

<p>
The gentleman saw that he had been straining
after, but not receiving the blessing he
sought.
</p>

<p>
Jesus has said, <q>Ask and ye shall receive.</q>
The very strain keeps back the blessing. The
intense tension of all your spiritual nature so
binds you that you are not open to the blessing
which God is waiting to give you. <q>Whosoever
will, let him take the water of life freely.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>He tells me there is cleansing</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>From every secret sin,</l>
<l>And a great and full salvation</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To keep the heart within.</l>
<l>And I take Him in His fulness,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With all His glorious grace,</l>
<l>For He says it is mine by taking,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And I take just what He says.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Thou shalt be to him instead of God</q> (Ex. iv. 16).
</p>

<p>
Such was God's promise to Moses, and
such the high character that Moses was
to assume toward Aaron, his brother.
May it not suggest a high and glorious
place that each of us may occupy toward all
whom we meet, instead of God?
</p>

<p>
What a dignity and glory it would give our
lives, could we uniformly realize this high calling!
How it would lead us to act toward our
fellow-men! God can always be depended
upon. God is without variableness or shadow
of turning. God's word is unchangeable, and
we can trust Him without reserve or question.
Oh, that we might so live that men can trust
us, even as God!
</p>

<p>
Again, God has no needs or wants to be supplied.
He is always giving. <q>Rich unto all
that call upon Him.</q> The glory of His nature
is love, unselfish love, and beneficence toward
all His creatures. The Divine life is a self-forgetting
life, a life that has nothing to do
but love and bless.
</p>

<p>
Let us so live, representing our Master here,
while He represents us before the Throne on
high.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 14.</head>

<p>
<q>Unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of
Christ</q> (Eph. iv. 13).
</p>

<p>
God loves us so well that He will not
suffer us to take less than His highest
will. Some day we shall bless our
faithful teacher, who kept the standard
inflexibly rigid, and then gave us the
strength and grace to reach it, and would not
excuse us until we had accomplished all His
glorious will.
</p>

<p>
Let us be inexorable with ourselves. Let us
mean exactly what God means, and have no
discounts upon His promises or commandments.
Let us keep the standard up, and never
rest until we reach it. <q>Let God be true and
every man a liar.</q> If we fail a hundred times
don't let us accommodate God's ideal to our
realization, but like the brave ensign who stood
in front of his company waving the banner, and
when the soldiers called him back he only
waved it higher, and cried, <q>Don't bring the
standard back to the regiment, but bring the
regiment up to the colors.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Forward, forward, leave the past behind thee,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Reaching forth unto the things before;</l>
<l>All the Land of Promise lies before thee,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>God has greater blessings yet in store.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 15.</head>

<p>
<q>As ye have received Christ Jesus so walk in Him</q>
(Col. ii. 6).
</p>

<p>
It is much easier to keep the fire burning
than to rekindle it after it has gone out.
Let us abide in Him. Let us not have to
remove the cinders and ashes from our
hearthstones every day and kindle a new flame;
but let us keep it burning and never let it expire.
Among the ancient Greeks the sacred
fire was never allowed to go out; so, in a higher
sense, let us keep the heavenly flame aglow
upon the altar of the heart.
</p>

<p>
It takes very much less effort to maintain a
good habit than to form it. A true spiritual
habit once formed becomes a spontaneous tendency
of our being, and we grow into delightful
freedom in following it. <q>Let us not be
ever laying again the foundation of repentance
from dead works, but let us go on unto perfection;
and whereto we have already attained,
let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the
same things.</q>
</p>

<p>
Every spiritual habit begins with difficulty
and effort and watchfulness, but if we will only
let it get thoroughly established, it will become
a channel along which currents of life will flow
with divine spontaneousness and freedom.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 16.</head>

<p>
<q>Prove what is that good, and acceptable and perfect
will of God</q> (Rom. xii. 2).
</p>

<p>
There are three conditions in which the
water in that engine may be. First,
the boiler may be full and the water
clean and clear; or, secondly, the boiler
may not only be full but the water may be
hot, very hot, hot enough to scald you, almost
boiling; thirdly, it may be just one degree
hotter and at the boiling point, giving
forth its vapor in clouds of steam, pressing
through the valves and driving the mighty piston
which turns the wheels and propels the
train of cars across the country.
</p>

<p>
So there are three kinds of Christians. The
first we will call cold water Christians, or, perhaps
better, clean water Christians.
</p>

<p>
Secondly, there are hot water Christians.
They are almost at the boiling point.
</p>

<p>
One degree more, we come to the third class
of Christians, the boiling water Christians.
The difference is a very slight one; it simply
takes one reservation out, drops one <q>if,</q>
eliminates a single touch, and yet it is all the
difference in the world. That one degree
changes that engine into a motive power, not
now a thing to be looked at, but a thing to go.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 17.</head>

<p>
<q>It is God which worketh in you</q> (Phil. ii. 13).
</p>

<p>
God has not two ways for any of us; but
one; not two things for us to do which
we may choose between; but one best
and highest choice. It is a blessed
thing to find and fill the perfect will of God.
It is a blessed thing to have our life laid out
and our Christian work adjusted to God's plan.
Much strength is lost by working at a venture.
Much spiritual force is expended in wasted effort,
and scattered, indefinite and inconstant
attempts at doing good. There is spiritual
force and financial strength enough in the
hands and hearts of the consecrated Christians
of to-day to bring the coming of Christ, to bring
about the evangelization of the world in a generation,
if it were only wisely directed and
utilized according to God's plan.
</p>

<p>
Christ has laid down a definite plan of work
for His Church, and He expects us to understand
it, and to work up to it; and as we catch
His thought, and obediently, loyally fulfil it,
we shall work to purpose, and please Him far
better than by our thoughtless, reckless, and
indiscriminate attempts to carry out our ideas,
and compel God to bless our work.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 18.</head>

<p>
<q>That take and give for Me and thee</q> (Matt. xvii. 27).
</p>

<p>
There is a beautiful touch of loving
thoughtfulness in the account of
Christ's miracle at Capernaum in providing
the tribute money. After the
reference to Peter's interview with the tax collector,
it is added, <q>When he came into the
house Jesus prevented him,</q> that is, anticipated
him, as the old Saxon word means, by
arranging for the need before Peter needed to
speak about it at all, and He sent Peter down
to the sea to find the piece of gold in the
mouth of the fish.
</p>

<p>
So our dear Lord is always thinking in advance
of our needs, and He loves to save us
from embarrassment, and anticipate our anxieties
and cares by laying up His loving acts
and providing before the emergency comes.
Then with exquisite tenderness the Master
adds: <q>That take and give for Me and thee.</q>
He puts Himself first in the embarrassing need
and bears the heavy end of the burden for His
distressed and suffering child. He makes our
cares His cares, our sorrows His sorrows, our
shame His shame, and <q>He is able to be
touched with the feeling of our infirmities.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 19.</head>

<p>
<q>Prove me now herewith</q> (Mal. iii. 10).
</p>

<p>
We once heard a simple old colored
man say something that we have
never forgotten. <q>When God tests
You it is a good time for you to test
Him by putting His promises to the proof, and
claiming from Him just as much as your trials
have rendered necessary.</q>
</p>

<p>
There are two ways of getting out of a trial.
One is to simply try to get rid of the trial, and
be thankful when it is over. The other is to
recognize the trial as a challenge from God to
claim a larger blessing than we have ever had,
and to hail it with delight as an opportunity
of obtaining a larger measure of Divine grace.
</p>

<p>
Thus even the adversary becomes an auxiliary,
and the things that seem to be against us
turn out to be for the furtherance of our way.
Surely, this is to be more than conquerors
through Him who loved us.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Blessed Rose of Sharon</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Breathe upon our heart,</l>
<l>Fill us with Thy fragrance,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Keep us as Thou art.</l>
<l>Then Thy life will make us</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Holy and complete;</l>
<l>In Thy grace triumphant,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In Thy sweetness, sweet.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 20.</head>

<p>
<q>Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of</q> (Luke
ix. 55).
</p>

<p>
Some one has said that the most spiritual
people are the easiest to get along
with. When one has a little of the Holy
Ghost it is like <q>a little learning, a dangerous
thing</q>; but a full baptism of the Holy
Spirit, and a really disciplined, stablished and
tested spiritual life, makes one simple, tender,
tolerant, considerate of others, and like a little
child.
</p>

<p>
James and John, in their early zeal, wanted
to call down fire from heaven on the Samaritans.
But John, the aged, allowed Demetrius
to exclude him from the church, and suffered
in Patmos for the kingdom and with the patience
of Jesus. And aged Paul was willing to
take back even Mark, whom he had refused as
a companion in his early ministry, and to acknowledge
that he was profitable to him for
the ministry.
</p>

<lg>
<l>I want the love that cannot help but love;</l>
<l>Loving, like God, for very sake of love.</l>
<l>A spring so full that it must overflow,</l>
<l>A fountain flowing from the throne above.</l>
</lg>

<p>
<q>Now abideth faith, hope, love; but the
greatest of these is love.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Pray without ceasing</q> (I. Thess. v. 17).
</p>

<p>
An important help in the life of prayer
is the habit of bringing everything to
God, moment by moment, as it comes
to us in life. This may be established
as a habit on the principle on which all habits
are formed, of repeated and constant attention,
moment by moment, until that which is at first
an act of will, becomes spontaneous and second
nature.
</p>

<p>
If we will watch our lives we shall find that
God meets the things that we commit to Him
in prayer with special blessing, and often allows
the best things that we have not committed
to Him to be ineffectual, simply to remind
us of our dependence upon Him for
everything. It is very gracious and mindful of
Him thus gently to compel us to remember
Him and to hold us so close to Him that we
cannot get away even the length of a single
minute from His all-sustaining arm. <q>In everything
... let our requests be made
known unto God.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Let us bring our least petitions,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Like the incense beaten small,</l>
<l>All our cares, complaints, conditions</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Jesus loves to bear them all.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 22.</head>

<p>
<q>His wife hath made herself ready</q> (Rev. xix. 7).
</p>

<p>
There is danger in becoming morbid
even in preparing for the Lord's coming.
We remember a time in our life
when we had devoted ourselves to
spend a month in waiting upon the Lord for a
baptism of the Holy Ghost, and before the end
of the month, the Lord shook us out of our
seclusion and compelled us to go out and carry
His message to others; and as we went, He met
us in the service.
</p>

<p>
There is a musty, monkish way of seeking
a blessing, and there is a wholesome, practical
holiness which finds us in the company of the
Lord Himself not only in the closet and on the
mountain-top of prayer, but among publicans
and sinners, and in the practical duties of
life.
</p>

<p>
It seems to us that the practical preparation
for the Lord's coming consists, first, of a very
full entering into fellowship with Him in our
own spiritual life, and letting Him not only
cleanse us, but perfect us in all the finer
touches of the Spirit's deeper work, and then,
secondly, getting out of ourselves and living
for the help of others and the preparation of
the world for His appearing.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 23.</head>

<p>
<q>I know a man in Christ</q> (II. Cor. xii. 2).
</p>

<p>
It is a great deliverance to lose one's self.
There is no heavier millstone that one
can be compelled to carry than self-consciousness.
It is so easy to get introverted
and coiled round one's self in our spiritual
consciousness. There is nothing that is
so easy to fasten on as our misery; there is
nothing that is more apt to produce self-consciousness
than suffering, until it becomes almost
a settled habit to hold on to our burden,
and pray it unceasingly into the very face of
God, until our very prayer saturates us with
our own misery, instead of asking for power to
drop ourselves altogether, and leave ourselves
in His loving hands and know that we are
free, and then rise into the blessed liberty of
His higher thoughts and will, and His love and
care for others.
</p>

<p>
The very act of letting go of ourselves really
lifts us into a higher plane, and relieves us from
the thing that is hurting. This habit of prayer
for others, and especially for the world, brings
its own recompense, and leaves upon our
hearts a blessing like the fertility which the
Nile deposits upon the soil of Egypt, as it
flows through to its distant goal.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 24.</head>

<p>
<q>Freely ye have received, freely give</q> (Matt. x. 8).
</p>

<p>
When God does anything marked
and special for our souls, or bodies,
He intends it as a sacred trust for
us to communicate to others. <q>Freely
ye have received, freely give.</q>
</p>

<p>
It has pleased the Master in these closing
days of the dispensation to reveal Himself in
peculiar blessing to the hearts of His chosen
disciples in all parts of the Christian Church;
but this is intended to be communicated to a
still wider circle, and every one of us who has
been brought into these intimate relations with
God, becomes a trustee, or witness for these
higher truths to every one we can influence.
</p>

<p>
If God has revealed Himself to us as our
Sanctifier, it is that we may help others to
know Him as a Sanctifier.
</p>

<p>
If He has become our Healer, it is because
there are sick and suffering lives to whom we
can bring some blessing.
</p>

<p>
In like manner, if the hope of the Lord's
coming has become precious to us, it would be
worse than ingratitude for us to hide our testimony
to this truth, and hold it only for our
own personal comfort.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 25.</head>

<p>
<q>Hold fast that which is good</q> (I. Thess. v. 21).
</p>

<p>
It is a great thing to be able to receive
new truth and blessing without sacrificing
the truths already proved, and abandoning
foundations already laid.
</p>

<p>
Some persons are always laying the foundations,
and they present at last, the appearance
of a lot of abandoned sites and half constructed
buildings, and nothing is ever brought to completion.
</p>

<p>
The fact that you are abandoning to-day for
some new truth the things that a year ago you
counted most precious and believed to be divinely
true, should be sufficient evidence that
you will probably a year from to-day abandon
your present convictions for the next new light
that comes to you.
</p>

<p>
God is ever wanting to add to us, to develop
us, to enlarge us, to teach us more and more,
but it is ever in the line of things which He has
already taught us, and in which we have been
established.
</p>

<p>
While we are to <q>prove all things,</q> let us
<q>hold fast that which is good,</q> and <q>whereto
we have already attained, let us walk by the
same rule, let us mind the same thing.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 26.</head>

<p>
<q>I called him alone and blessed him</q> (Isa. li. 2).
</p>

<p>
When we were in the East we noticed
the beautiful process of raising rice.
The rice is sown on a morass of mud
and water, ploughed up by great buffaloes,
and after a few weeks it springs up and
appears above the water with its beautiful pale
green shoots. The seed has been sown very
thickly and the plants are clustered together
in great numbers, so that you can pull up a
score at a single handful. But now comes the
process of transplanting. He first plants us
and lets us grow very close to some of His
children, and in great clusters in the nursery
or the hothouse, but when we reach a certain
stage we must be transplanted, or come to
nothing. He calls us out by His Spirit and
Providence into situations where we have to
lean directly on Him, where He puts upon us
a weight of responsibility and service so great
that we have an opportunity of developing and
are thrown upon the great resources of His grace.
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed is the man that trusteth in the
Lord, and whose hope the Lord is; for he shall
be like a tree planted by the waters and that
spreadeth out her roots by the rivers.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 27.</head>

<p>
<q>This one thing I do</q> (Phil. iii. 13).
</p>

<p>
One of Satan's favorite employees is
the switchman. He likes nothing
better than to side-track one of God's
express trains, sent on some blessed
mission and filled with the fire of a holy purpose.
</p>

<p>
Something will come up in the pathway of
the earnest soul, to attract its attention and
occupy its strength and thought. Sometimes
it is a little irritation and provocation. Sometimes
it is some petty grievance we stop to pursue
or adjust. Sometimes it is somebody else's
business in which we become interested,
and which we feel bound to rectify, and
before we know, we are absorbed in a lot
of distracting cares and interests that quite
turn us aside from the great purpose of our
life.
</p>

<p>
Perhaps we do not do much harm, but we
have missed our connection. We have got off
the main line.
</p>

<p>
Let all these things alone. Let grievances
come and go, but press forward steadily and
irresistibly, crying, as you haste to the goal,
<q>This one thing I do.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 28.</head>

<p>
<q>That my joy might remain in you, and that your joy
might be full</q> (John xv. 11).
</p>

<p>
There is a joy that springs spontaneously
in the heart without external
or even rational cause. It is an
artesian fountain. It rejoices because
it cannot help it. It is the glory of God; it is
the heart of Christ, it is the joy divine of
which He says, <q>These things have I spoken
unto you that My joy might remain in you, and
that your joy might be full.</q> And your joy no
man taketh from you. He who possesses this
fountain is not discouraged by surrounding
circumstances, but is often surprised at the
deep, sweet gladness that comes without any
apparent cause, and even comes most strongly
when everything in our condition and circumstances
is fitted to fill us with sorrow and depression.
</p>

<p>
It is the nightingale in the heart, which sings
at night, and sings because it is its nature to sing.
</p>

<p>
It is the glorified and incorruptible joy which
belongs to heaven, and anticipates already the
everlasting song. Lord, give me Thy joy under
all circumstances this day, and let my full
heart overflow in blessing to others.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 29.</head>

<p>
<q>Send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared</q>
(Neh. viii. 10).
</p>

<p>
That was a fine picture in the days of
Nehemiah, when they were celebrating
their glorious Feast of Tabernacles.
<q>Neither be ye sorry; for the joy of
the Lord is your strength. Go your way, eat
the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions
to them for whom nothing is prepared.</q>
</p>

<p>
How many there are on every side for whom
nothing is prepared! Let us find out some sad
and needy heart for whom there is no one else
to think or care. Let us pray for some one
that has none to pray for him. Let us be like
Him who, one Christmas Day, gave His life
and His all, and came to those who would not
appreciate His holy gift, but rejected His
blessed Babe, and murdered His only Son.
</p>

<p>
Let us not be afraid to know something even
of the love that is unrequited and is thrown
away on the unworthy. That is the love of
Christ, and God has for such love a rich recompense.
</p>

<p>
How Christ must almost weep over the selfishness
that meets Him from those for whom
He died.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 30.</head>

<p>
<q>Cast down but not destroyed</q> (II. Cor. iv. 9).
</p>

<p>
How did God bring about the miracle
of the Red Sea? By shutting His people
in on every side, so that there was
no way out but the divine way. The
Egyptians were behind them, the sea was in
front of them, the mountains were on every
side of them. There was no escape but from above.
</p>

<p>
Some one has said that the devil can wall us
in, but he cannot roof us over. We can always
get out at the top. Our difficulties are but
God's challenges, and He makes them so hard,
often, that we must go under or get above them.
</p>

<p>
In such an hour, if there is a divine element,
it brings out the highest possibilities of faith
and we are pushed by the very emergency into
God's best.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, this is God's hour. If you will rise
to meet it you will get such a hold upon Him
that you will never be in extremities again, or
if you are, you will learn to call them not extremities,
but opportunities, and like Jacob,
you will go forth from that night at Peniel, no
longer Jacob, but victorious Israel. Let us
bring to Him our need and prove Him true.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January 31.</head>

<p>
<q>Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and
righteousness and sanctification and redemption</q> (I. Cor.
i. 30).
</p>

<p>
More and more we are coming to see
the supreme importance of getting
the right conception of sanctification,
not as a blessing, but as a personal
union with the personal Saviour and the
indwelling Holy Spirit. Thousands of people
get stranded after they have embarked on the
great voyage of holiness.
</p>

<p>
They find themselves failing and falling, and
are astonished and perplexed, and they conclude
that they must have been mistaken in
their experience, and so they make a new attempt
at the same thing and again fall, until
at last, worn out with the experiment, they
conclude that the experience is a delusion, or,
at least, that it was never intended for them,
and so they fall back into the old way, and
their last state is worse than their first.
</p>

<p>
What people need to-day to satisfy their
deep hunger and to give them a permanent and
Divine experience is to know, not sanctification
as a state, but Christ as a living Person,
who is waiting to enter the heart that is willing
to receive Him.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 1.</head>

<p>
<q>A well of water springing up</q> (John iv. 14).
</p>

<p>
In the life overflowing in service for others,
we find the deep fountain of life
running over the spring and finding vent
in rivers of living water that go out to
bless and save the world around us. It is beautiful
to notice that as the blessing grows unselfish
it grows larger. The water in the heart is
only a well, but when reaching out to the needs
of others it is not only a river, but a delta of
many rivers overflowing in majestic blessing.
This overflowing love is connected with the
Person and work of the Holy Spirit which was
to be poured out upon the disciples after Jesus
was glorified.
</p>

<p>
This is the true secret of power for service,
the heart filled and satisfied with Jesus, and so
baptized with the Holy Ghost that it is impelled
by the fulness of its joy and love to impart
to others what it has so abundantly received;
and yet each new ministry only makes
room for a new filling and a deeper receiving
of the life which grows by giving.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Letting go is twice possessing,</l>
<l>Would you double every blessing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Pass it on.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 2.</head>

<p>
<q>And whosoever will be great among you, let him be
your minister. And whosoever will be chief among you,
let him be your servant</q> (Matt. xx. 26, 27).
</p>

<p>
Slave is the literal meaning of the
word, <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>doulos</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
The first word used for service is
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>diakanos</foreign>, which means a minister to
others in any usual way or work: but the word
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>doulos</foreign> means a bond slave, and the Lord here
plainly teaches us that the highest service is
that of a bond slave.
</p>

<p>
He Himself made Himself the servant of all,
and he who would come nearest to Him and
stand closest to Him at last, must likewise
learn the spirit of the ministry that has utterly
renounced selfish rights and claims forever.
</p>

<p>
It is quite possible to be entirely loyal to
the Lord Jesus, and yet for Jesus' sake, a servant
ourselves, and under the authority of those
who are over us in the Lord.
</p>

<p>
The <foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>doulos</foreign> spirit is the spirit of
self-renunciation and glad submission to proper authority,
service utterly disinterested, yielding our
own preferences and interests unreservedly
for the glory of the Master and the sake of our
brethren. Lord, clothe us with humility and
make us wholly Thine.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 3.</head>

<p>
<q>He went out, not knowing whither He went</q> (Heb.
xi. 8).
</p>

<p>
It is faith without sight. When we can
see, it is not faith but reasoning. In
crossing the Atlantic we observed this
very principle of faith. We saw no path
upon the sea nor sign of the shore. And yet
day by day we were marking our path upon the
chart as exactly as if there had followed us a
great chalk line upon the sea; and when we
came within twenty miles of land we knew
where we were as exactly as if we had seen it
all three thousand miles ahead.
</p>

<p>
How had we measured and marked our
course? Day by day our captain had taken his
instruments, and looking up to the sky had
fixed his course by the sun. He was sailing by
the heavenly, not the earthly lights. So faith
looks up and sails on, by God's great Sun, not
seeing one shore line or earthly lighthouse or
path upon the way. Often its steps seem to
lead into utter uncertainty, and even darkness
and disaster. But He opens the way, and often
makes such midnight hours the very gates of
day. Let us go forth this day, not knowing
but trusting.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Lo, I am with you alway</q> (Matt. xxviii. 20).
</p>

<p>
This living Christ is not the person that
was, but the person that still is, your
living Lord. At Preston Pans, near
Edinburgh, I looked on the field where
in the olden days armies were engaged in contest.
In the crisis of the battle the chieftain
fell wounded. His men were about to shrink
away from the field when they saw their leader's
form go down; their strong hands held the
claymore with trembling grip, and they faltered
for a moment. Then the old chieftain rallied
strength enough to rise on his elbow and cry:
<q>I am not dead, my children, I am only watching
you&mdash;to see my clansmen do their duty.</q>
And so from the other side of Calvary He is
speaking; we cannot see Him, but He says,
<q>Lo, I am with you alway, even to the end of
the world</q>; and He puts it, <q>I am</q>&mdash;an uninterrupted
and continuous presence. Not <q>I
will be,</q> but the unbroken presence still is
with us forevermore.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Soon the conflict shall be done,</l>
<l>Soon the battle shall be won;</l>
<l>Soon shall wave the victor's palm,</l>
<l>Soon shall sing the eternal Psalm;</l>
<l>Then our joyful song shall be,</l>
<l>I have overcome through Thee.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 5.</head>

<p>
<q>Rest in the Lord</q> (Ps. xxxvii.).
</p>

<p>
In the old creation the week began with
work and ended with Sabbath rest. The
resurrection week begins with the first
day&mdash;first rest, then labor.
</p>

<p>
So we must first cease from our own works
as God did from His, and enter into His rest,
and then we will work, with rested hearts, His
works with effectual power.
</p>

<p>
But why <q>labor to enter into rest</q>? See that
ship&mdash;how restfully she sails over the waters,
her sails swelling with the gale; and borne
without an effort! And yet, look at that man at
the helm. See how firmly he holds the rudder,
bearing against the wind, and holding her
steady to her position. Let him for a moment
relax his steady hold and the ship will fall
listlessly along the wind. The sails will flap,
the waves will toss the vessel at their will, and
all rest and power will have gone. It is the
fixed helm that brings the steadying power of
the wind. And so He has said, <q>Thou wilt
keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is
stayed on Thee, because he trusteth in Thee.</q>
The steady will and stayed heart are ours. The
keeping is the Lord's. So let us labor to enter
and abide in His rest.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 6.</head>

<p>
<q>Praying always for all saints</q> (Eph. vi. 18).
</p>

<p>
One good counsel will suffice just now.
Stop praying so much for yourself;
begin to ask unselfish things, and see if
God won't give you faith. See how
much easier it will be to believe for another
than for your own petty self. Try the effect of
praying for the world, for definite things, for
difficult things, for glorious things, for things
that will honor Christ and save mankind, and
after you have received a few wonderful answers
to prayer in this direction, see if you
won't feel stronger to touch your own little
burden with a Divine faith, and then go back
again to the high place of unselfish prayer for
others.
</p>

<p>
Have you ever learned the beautiful art of
letting God take care of you, and giving all
your thought and strength to pray for
others and for the kingdom of God? It
will relieve you of a thousand cares. It
will lift you up into a noble and lofty
sphere, and teach you to live and love like
God. Lord save us from our selfish prayers
and give us the faith that worketh by
love, and the heart of Christ for a perishing
world.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 7.</head>

<p>
<q>Faithful in that which is least</q> (Luke xvi. 10).
</p>

<p>
The man that missed his opportunity
and met the doom of the faithless servant
was not the man with five talents,
or the man with two, but the man
who had only one. The people who are in danger
of missing life's great meaning are the people
of ordinary capacity and opportunity, and
who say to themselves, <q>There is so little I can
do that I will not try to do anything.</q> One of
the finest windows in Europe was made from
the remnants an apprentice boy collected from
the cuttings of his master's great work. The
sweepings of the British mint are worth millions.
The little pivots on which the works of
your watch turn are so important that they are
actually made of jewels. And so God places a
solemn value and responsibility on the humble
workers, the people that try to hide behind
their insignificance the trifling opportunities
and the single talents; and our littleness will
not excuse us in the reckoning day.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Talk not of talents, what hast thou to do?</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Thou hast sufficient, whether five or two.</l>
<l>Talk not of talents; is thy duty done?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>This brings the blessing whether ten or
one.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 8.</head>

<p>
<q>We are not sufficient of ourselves to think anything
as of ourselves</q> (II. Cor. iii. 5).
</p>

<p>
Insufficient, <q>All sufficient.</q> These
two words form the complement of each
other and together give the key to an
efficient Christian life. The discovery
and full conviction of our utter helplessness
is the constant condition of spiritual supply.
The aim of the Old Testament, therefore, is
ever to show man's failure; that of the New,
to reveal Christ's sufficiency. He has all things
for us, but we cannot receive them till we know
that we have nothing.
</p>

<p>
The very essence, therefore, of Christian perfection
is the constant renunciation of our own
perfection, and the continual acceptance of
Christ's righteousness. And as we receive
deeper views of our nothingness and evil, it is
but a call to claim more of His rich grace. But
it is possible fully to know our insufficiency and
yet not take firmly hold of His <q>all things.</q>
This, too, must be done with a faith that will
not accept less than ALL. The prophet was
angry because the king of Israel had only smitten
thrice upon the ground. He should have
done it five or six times. He might have had
all. So let us meet His greatness and grace.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 9.</head>

<p>
<q>None of these things move me</q> (Acts xx. 24).
</p>

<p>
The best evidence of God's presence is
the devil's growl. So wrote good Mr.
Spurgeon once in <q>The Sword and
the Trowel,</q> and that little sentence
has helped many a tried and tired child Of God
to stand fast and even rejoice under the fiercest
attacks of the foe.
</p>

<p>
We read in the book of Samuel that the moment
that David was crowned at Hebron, <q>All
the Philistines came up to seek David.</q> And
the moment we get anything from the Lord
worth contending for, then the devil comes to
seek us.
</p>

<p>
When the enemy meets us at the threshold
of any great work for God let us accept it as
<q>a token of salvation,</q> and claim double blessing,
victory and power. Power is developed
by resistance. The cannon carries twice as far
because the exploding power has to find its
way through resistance. The way electricity
is produced in the power-house yonder is by
the sharp friction of the revolving wheels.
And so we shall find some day that even Satan
has been one of God's agencies of blessing.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 10.</head>

<p>
<q>I am crucified with Christ; nevertheless I live</q> (Gal.
ii. 20).
</p>

<p>
Christ life is in harmony with our nature.
A lady asked me the other day&mdash;a
thoughtful, intelligent woman
who was not a Christian, but who
had the deepest hunger for that which is right:
<q>How can this be so, and we not lose our individuality!
This will destroy our personality,
and it violates our responsibility as individuals.</q>
</p>

<p>
I said: <q>Dear sister, your personality is only
half without Christ. Christ was made for you,
and you were made for Christ, and until you
meet you are not complete, and He needs you
as you need Him.</q> I said: <q>Suppose that gas-jet
should say, <q>If I take this fire in, the gas
will lose its individuality.</q> Oh, no; it is only
when the fire comes in that the gas fulfils its
very purpose of being. Suppose the snowflake
should say, <q>What shall I do? If I drop on the
ground I shall lose my individuality.</q> But it
falls and is absorbed by the soil, and the snowflakes
are seen by-and-by in the primroses and
daisies. Let us lose ourselves and rise to a
new life in Christ.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 11.</head>

<p>
<q>Strengthened with all might unto all patience</q> (Col.
i. 11).
</p>

<p>
The apostle prays for the Colossians,
that they may be <q>strengthened with all
might, according to His glorious power,
unto all patience and long-suffering
with joyfulness.</q> It is one thing to endure and
show the strain on every muscle of your face,
and seem to say with every wrinkle, <q>Why
does not somebody sympathize with me?</q> It
is another to endure the cross, <q>despising the
shame</q> for the joy set before us.
</p>

<p>
There are some trees in the garden of the
Lord which <q>shall not see when heat cometh</q>;
and shall not be careful in the year of drought,
nor cease from yielding fruit. Let us set our
faces toward the sunrising and use the clouds
that come, to make rainbows. Not much
longer shall we have the glorious opportunity
to rejoice in tribulation, and learn patience.
In heaven we shall have nothing to teach long-suffering.
If we do not learn it here, we shall
be without our brightest crown forever, and
wish ourselves back for a little while, in the
very circumstances of which we are now trying
so hard to get rid.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 12.</head>

<p>
<q>But seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and His righteousness,
and all these things shall be added unto you</q>
(Matt. vi. 33).
</p>

<p>
For every heart that is seeking anything
from the Lord this is a good watchword.
That very thing, or the desire
for it, may unconsciously separate you
from the Lord, or at least from the singleness
of your purpose unto Him. The thing we desire
may be a right thing, but we may desire it
in a distrusting and selfish spirit. Let us commit
it to Him, and not cease to believe for it,
but let us, at the same time, keep our purpose
fixed on His will and glory, and claim even His
promised blessings, not for themselves or ourselves,
but for Him. Then shall it be true,
<q>Delight thyself in the Lord, and He shall give
thee the desires of thine heart.</q> All other
things but Himself God will <q><emph>add</emph>.</q> But they
must be ever <emph>added</emph>, never <emph>first</emph>.
</p>

<p>
Then shall we be able to believe for them
without doubt, when we claim them for Him
and not for ourselves. It is only when <q>we
are Christ's</q> that <q>all things are ours.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me this day to seek Thee first, and
be more desirous to please Thee and have Thy
will than to possess any other blessing.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Thy prayers are come up for a memorial before God</q>
(Acts x. 4).
</p>

<p>
What a beautiful expression the angel
used to Cornelius, <q>Thy prayers
are come up for a memorial.</q> It
would almost seem as if supplications
of years had accumulated before the
Throne, and at last the answer broke in blessings
on the head of Cornelius, even as the accumulated
evaporation of months at last bursts
in floods of rain upon the parched ground. So
God is represented as treasuring the prayers
of His saints in vials; they are described as
sweet odors. They are placed like fragrant
flowers in the chambers of the King. And
kept in sweet remembrance before Him.
And later they are represented as poured
out upon the earth; and lo, there are voices
and thunderings and great providential movements
fulfilling God's purposes for His kingdom.
We are called <q>the Lord's remembrancers,</q>
and are commanded to give Him
no rest, day nor night, but crowd the
heavens with our petitions and in due time
the answer will come with its accumulated
blessings.
</p>

<p>
No breath of true prayer is lost. The longer
it waits, the larger it becomes.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 14.</head>

<p>
<q>He shall baptize you with fire</q> (Matt. iii. 11).
</p>

<p>
Fire is strangely intense and intrinsic.
It goes into the very substance of
things. It somehow blends with every
particle of the thing it touches.
</p>

<p>
There are the severe trials that come to
minds more sensitive, to the minds that have
more points of contact with what hurts; so
that the higher the nature the higher the joy,
and the greater the avenues of pain that come.
</p>

<p>
And then there are deeper trials that come
as we pass into the hands of God, as we pass
from the physical and intellectual into the spiritual
nature.
</p>

<p>
When they first come, we shrink back from
their unnatural and fearful breath, and we say:
<q>Oh, this cannot be from the hand of a loving
Father! This cannot be necessary to me.</q>
</p>

<p>
And then come the pains and sufferings from
God's own hand, when He sits as a refiner and
purifier of silver, when He lets it burn, until it
seems that we must be burned to ashes, and
we are, indeed, at last burned to ashes.
</p>

<p>
But we must get the victory through faith.
The moment you cease to fear it, that moment
it ceases to harm you. He says, <q>The flames
shall not kindle upon you.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 15.</head>

<p>
<q>Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus</q> (II.
Tim. ii. 1).
</p>

<p>
How to enjoy this day. This will never
come by trying to be happy and yet we
are responsible for the conditions of
real joy.
</p>

<p>
1. Be right with God; for <q>Gladness is sown
for the upright in heart.</q> <q>It is His joy that
remains in us that makes our joy to be full.</q>
</p>

<p>
2. Forget yourself and live for others; for
<q>It is more blessed to give than to receive.</q>
</p>

<p>
3. When you cannot rejoice in feelings, circumstances
and states, <q>rejoice in the Lord,</q>
and <q>count it all joy, when ye fall into divers
temptations.</q>
</p>

<p>
Finally, obey the Lord and be faithful to
your trust; and again and again will His blessed
Spirit whisper to your heart, <q>Well done,
good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of
thy Lord.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Not enjoyment and not sorrow</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Is our destined end or way,</l>
<l>But to act that each to-morrow</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Finds us farther than to-day.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Let us then be up and doing</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With a heart for any fate,</l>
<l>Still achieving, still pursuing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>Learn to labor and to wait.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 16.</head>

<p>
<q>We will give ourselves continually to prayer</q> (Acts
vi. 4).
</p>

<p>
In the consecrated believer the Holy
Spirit is pre-eminently a Spirit of prayer.
If our whole being is committed to
Him, and our thoughts are at His bidding,
He will occupy every moment in communion
and we shall bring every thing to Him
as it comes, and pray it out in our spiritual consciousness
before we act it out in our lives.
We shall, therefore, find ourselves taking up
the burdens of life and praying them out in a
wordless prayer which we ourselves often cannot
understand, but which is simply the unfolding
of His thought and will within us, and
which will be followed by the unfolding of
His providence concerning us.
</p>

<p>
Want of faithfulness and obedience to the
faintest whisper of His will will often hinder
some blessing which He meant for us until after
a while we may get so dull and negligent
that He will not be able to trust us with His
whispers and we shall thus stumble on in the
darkness and miss His highest thoughts.
</p>

<p>
Lord, teach us to pray in the Spirit, to pray
without ceasing and to lose nothing of Thy
will.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 17.</head>

<p>
<q>Your life is hid</q> (Col. iii. 3).
</p>

<p>
Some Christians loom up in larger proportion
than is becoming. They can
tell, and others can tell, how many
souls they bring to Christ. Their labor
seems to crystallize and become its own memorial.
Others again seem to blend so wholly
with other workers that their own individuality
can scarcely be traced. And yet, after all, this
is the most Christ-like ministry of all, for the
Master Himself does not even appear in the
work of the church except as her hidden Life
and ascended Head, and even the Holy Spirit
is lost in the vessels that He uses. The vine
does not bear the fruit, and even the sap is unseen
in its ceaseless flow, and it is the little
branches which bear all the clusters and seem
to have all the honor of the vintage. And so
the nearer we come to Christ the more we are
willing to be lost sight of in our fruit, and let
others be more prominent, while we are the
glad and willing witnesses of our testimony
and hold up their hands by the silent ministry
of love and prayer. Lord, let me be like the
veiled seraphim before the throne, who cover
their faces and their feet, and hide themselves
and their service while they fly to obey Thee.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 18.</head>

<p>
<q>Christ in you</q> (Col. i. 27).
</p>

<p>
How great the difference between the old
and the new way of deliverance! One
touch of Christ is worth a lifetime of
struggling. A sufferer in one of our
hospitals was in danger of losing his sight
from a small piece of broken needle that had
entered his eye.
</p>

<p>
Operation after operation had only irritated
it, and driven the foreign substance farther still
into the delicate nerves of the sensitive organ.
At length a skilful young physician thought of
a new expedient. He came one day without
lancet and probes, and holding in his hand a
small but powerful magnet, which he kept before
the wounded eye, as close as it could
bear. Immediately the piece of steel began
to move toward the powerful attraction, and
soon flew up to meet it and left the suffering
eye completely relieved, without an effort or a
laceration. It was as simple as it was wonderful.
By a single touch of power the organ was
saved and a dangerous trouble completely
cured.
</p>

<p>
It is thus that God delivers us, by the simple
attraction of Christ's life and power.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 19.</head>

<p>
<q>As much as in me is I am ready</q> (Rom. i. 15).
</p>

<p>
Be earnest. Intense earnestness, a whole
heart for Christ, the passion sign of
the cross, the enthusiasm of our whole
being for our Master and humanity&mdash;this
is what the Lord expects, this is what His
cross deserves, this is what the world needs,
this is what the age has a right to look for.
Everything around us is intensely alive. Life
is earnest, death is earnest, sin is earnest, men
are earnest, business is earnest, knowledge is
earnest, the age is earnest; God forgive us if
we alone are trifling in the white heat of this
crisis time. Oh, for the baptism of fire! Oh,
for the living coal upon the burning lips of
love! Oh, for men God-possessed and self-surrendered
grasping God's great idea and
pressing forward <q>for the mark of the prize of
the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>All the world for Jesus</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>My prayer shall be,</l>
<l>And my watchword ever,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Himself for me.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>All the world for Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Lord, quickly come,</l>
<l>Bring Thy promised kingdom,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And take us home.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 20.</head>

<p>
<q>Fear thou not, for I am with thee</q> (Isa. xli. 10).
</p>

<p>
Satan is always trying to weaken our
faith by fear. He is a great metaphysician
and knows the paralyzing effect
of fear, that it is the great enemy of
faith, and that faith is the great secret of help.
If he can get us fearing he will stop our trusting
and hinder the very blessing we need. Job
found the peril of fear and gives us the sorrowful
testimony, <q>I feared a fear and it came
upon me.</q>
</p>

<p>
Fear is born of Satan, and if we would only
take time to think a moment we would see that
everything Satan says is founded upon a falsehood.
He is the father of lies. Even his fears
are falsehoods and his terrors ought rather be
to us encouragements.
</p>

<p>
When Satan tells you, therefore, that some
ill is going to come, you may quietly look in
his face and tell him he is a liar, that instead of
ill, goodness and mercy shall follow you all
the days of your life, and then turn to your
blessed Lord and say, <q>What time I am afraid,
I will trust in Thee.</q> Every fear is distrust
and trust is the remedy for fear. <q>What time
I am afraid I will <emph>trust</emph> in thee.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Be not dismayed, for I am thy God</q> (Isa. xli. 10).
</p>

<p>
How tenderly God is always comforting
our fears! How sweetly He says in
Isaiah xli. 10, <q>Fear not; for I am with
thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy
God: I will uphold thee with the right hand of
My righteousness.</q> And yet again with still
tenderer thoughtfulness, <q>I, the Lord thy God,
will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee,
Fear not, I will help thee.</q> Not only does He
say it once, but He keeps holding our right
hand and repeating such promises.
</p>

<p>
The blessed Lord has condensed it all into
one sweet monogram of eternal comfort in His
message to the disciples on the sea of Galilee,
<q>It is I; be not afraid.</q> He does not say, <q>It
is over,</q> or <q>It is morning,</q> or <q>It is fine
weather,</q> or <q>It is smooth water,</q> but He
says, <q>It is I, be not afraid.</q> He is the antidote
to fear; He is the remedy for trouble; He is
the substance and the sum of deliverance.
Therefore, we should rise above fear. Let us
keep our eyes fastened upon Him; let us abide
continually in Him; let us be content with
Him; let us cling closely to Him and cry, <q>We
will not fear though the earth be removed,
though the mountains be carried into the midst
of the sea.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 22.</head>

<p>
<q>He that hath entered into His rest hath ceased from
his own works even as God did from His</q> (Heb. iv. 10).
</p>

<p>
What a rest it would be to many of
us if we could but exchange burdens
with Christ, and so utterly and forever
transfer to Him all our cares
and needs that we would not feel henceforth
responsible for our burdens, but know that He
has undertaken all the care, and that our faith
is simply to carry His burdens, and that He
prays, labors, and suffers only for us and our
interests. This is what He truly invites us to
do. <q>Come unto Me,</q> He says, <q>all ye that labor
and are heavy-laden and I will rest you,</q>
and then He adds, <q>Take My yoke upon you,
and learn of Me.</q> He takes our yoke and we
take His and we find it a thousand times easier
to carry one of His burdens than to carry our
own. How much more delightful it is to spend
an hour in supplication for another than five
minutes in pleading for ourselves. Are we not
weary of carrying our wretched loads?
</p>

<lg>
<l>'Twas for this His mercy sought you,</l>
<l>And to all His fulness brought you,</l>
<l>By the precious blood that bought you,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Pass it on.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 23.</head>

<p>
<q>For me to live is Christ and to die is gain</q> (Phil.
i. 21).
</p>

<p>
The secret of a sound body is a sound
heart, and the prayer of the Holy
Ghost for us is, that we <q>may be in
health and prosper even as our soul
prospers.</q>
</p>

<p>
We find Paul in the Epistles to the Philippians
expressing a sublime and holy indifference
to the question of life or death. Indeed
he is in a real strait, whether he would prefer
<q>to depart and be with Christ,</q> or to remain
still in the flesh.
</p>

<p>
The former would indeed be his sweetest
preference, but the latter would be at the same
time a joyful service. His only object in wanting
to live is to be a blessing. <q>To abide in the
flesh is more needful to you.</q>
</p>

<p>
Having reached this state of heart, it is beautiful
to notice how quickly he rises to the victorious
faith necessary to claim perfect
strength and health. Because it is more needful
to you that I abide in the flesh, he adds, <q>I
know that I shall continue with you all, for
your furtherance and joy of faith.</q> Lord, help
me to-day to <q>count not my life dear unto myself
that I may finish my course with joy and
the ministry that I have received of Jesus.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 24.</head>

<p>
<q>Sin shall not have dominion over you, for ye are not
under the law, but under grace</q> (Rom. vi. 14).
</p>

<p>
The secret of Moses' failures was this:
<q>The law made nothing perfect, but the
bringing in of a better hope did.</q> And
this was why his life work also came
short of full realization. He saw but entered
not the Promised Land. The founder of the
law had to be its victim, and his life and death
might demonstrate the inability of the law to
lead any man into the Promised Land. The
very fact, that it was for so slight a fault that
Moses lost his inheritance, makes all the more
emphatic the solemn sentence of the law.
<q>Cursed is every one that continueth not in
all things that are written in the Book of the
Law to do them.</q>
</p>

<p>
But to the glory of the grace of God we can
add that what the law could not do for Moses
the Gospel did; and he who could not pass
over the Jordan under the old dispensation
is seen on the very heights of Hermon
with the Son of Man, sharing His
Transfiguration glory, and talking of that
death on Calvary to which be owed his glorious
destiny.
</p>

<p>
That grace we have inherited under the Gospel
of Jesus Christ.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 25.</head>

<p>
<q>I am the vine, ye are the branches</q> (John xv. 5).
</p>

<p>
How can I take Christ as my Sanctifier,
or Healer? is a question that we are
constantly asked. It is necessary first
of all that we get into the posture of
faith. This has to be done by a definite and
voluntary act, and then maintained by a uniform
habit. It is just the same as the planting
of a tree. You must put it in the soil by a definite
act, and then you must let it stay put and
remain settled in the ground until the little
roots have time to fix themselves and begin to
draw the sustenance from the soil. There are
two stages, the definite planting and then the
habitual absorbing of moisture and nourishment
from the ground. The root fibers must
rest until they reach out their spongy pores
and drink in the nutriment of the earth. After
the habit is established, then by a certain uniform
law, the plant draws its life from the
ground without an effort, and it is just as natural
for it to grow as it is for us to breathe.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me this day to abide in Thee, and
to grow into the habit of drawing all my life
from Thine so that it shall be true for me, <q>In
Him I live and move and have my being.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 26.</head>

<p>
<q>Make you perfect in every good work</q> (Heb. xiii. 21).
</p>

<p>
In that beautiful prayer at the close of the
Epistle to the Hebrews, <q>Now the God
of peace, that brought again from the
dead, our Lord Jesus Christ, that great
Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of
the everlasting covenant, make you perfect in
every good work to do His will,</q> the phrase,
<q>make you perfect in every good work,</q> literally
means, it is said, <q>adjust you in every good
work.</q> It is a great thing to be adjusted, adjusted
to our surroundings and circumstances
rather than trying to have them adjusted to us,
adjusted to the people we are thrown with, adjusted
to the work God has for us, and not trying
to get God to help us to do our work;
adjusted to do the very will and plan of God
for us in our whole life. This is the secret of
rest, power and freedom in our life-work.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Oh, fill me with Thy fulness, Lord.</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Until my very heart o'erflow</l>
<l>In kindling thought and glowing word,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Thy love to tell, Thy praise to show.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oh, use me, Lord, use even me,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Just as Thou wilt, and when, and where;</l>
<l>Until Thy blessed face I see,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>Thy rest, Thy joy, Thy glory share.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 27.</head>

<p>
<q>Stablish, strengthen, settle you</q> (I. Peter v. 10).
</p>

<p>
In taking Christ in any new relationship,
we must first have sufficient intellectual
light to satisfy our mind that we are entitled
to stand in this relationship. The
shadow of a question here will wreck our confidence.
Then, having seen this, we must make
the venture, the committal, the choice, and take
the place just as definitely as the tree is planted
in the soil, or the bride gives herself away at
the marriage altar. It must be once for all,
without reserve, without recall.
</p>

<p>
Then there is a season of establishing, settling
and testing, during which we must stay
put until the new relationship gets so fixed as
to become a permanent habit. It is just the
same as when the surgeon sets the broken arm.
He puts it in splints to keep it from vibration.
So God has His spiritual splints that He wants
to put upon His children and keep them quiet
and unmoved until they pass the first stage of
faith.
</p>

<p>
It is not always easy work for us, <q>but the
God of all grace who hath called you unto His
eternal glory by Christ Jesus after you have
suffered awhile, stablish, strengthen, settle
you.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February 28.</head>

<p>
<q>Count it all joy</q> (James i. 2).
</p>

<p>
We do not always feel joyful, but we
are to count it all joy. The word
<q>reckon</q> is one of the key-words of
Scripture. It is the same word used
about our being dead. We do not feel dead.
We are painfully conscious of something that
would gladly return to life. But we are to
treat ourselves as dead, and neither fear nor
obey the old nature.
</p>

<p>
So we are to reckon the thing that comes as
a blessing. We are determined to rejoice, to
say, <q>My heart is fixed, O God, I will sing and
give praise.</q> This rejoicing, by faith, will
soon become a habit, and will ever bring speedily
the spirit of gladness and the spontaneous
overflow of praise.
</p>

<p>
Then, <q>although the fig-tree may wither and
no fruit appear in the vines, the labor of the
olive fail and the fields yield no increase, the
herd be cut off from the stall, and the cattle
from the field, yet we will rejoice in the Lord,
and joy in the God of our salvation.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Peace, perfect peace, with sorrows surging round,</q></l>
<l>On Jesus' bosom naught but calm is found;</l>
<l>Peace, perfect peace, our future all unknown,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Jesus we know, and He is on the throne.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 1.</head>

<p>
<q>Wait on the Lord</q> (Ps. xxvii. 14).
</p>

<p>
How often this is said in the Bible, how
little understood! It is what the old
monk calls the <q>practice of the presence
of God.</q> It is the habit of prayer. It
is the continued communion that not only asks,
but receives. People often ask us to pray for
them and we have to say, <q>Why, God has answered
our prayer for you, and you must now
take the answer. It is awaiting you, and you
must take it by waiting on the Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
This it is that renews the strength, until we
mount up with wings as eagles, run and are
not weary, walk and are not faint. Our hearts
are too vast to take in His fulness at a single
breath. We must live in the atmosphere of
His presence till we absorb His very life. This
is the secret of spiritual depth and rest, of
power and fulness, of love and prayer, of
hope and holy usefulness. <q>Wait, I say, on
the Lord.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>I am waiting in communion at the blessed mercy seat,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I am waiting, sweetly waiting, on the Lord;</l>
<l>I am drinking, of His fulness; I am sitting at His feet;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I am hearkening to the whispers of His word.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 2.</head>

<p>
<q>That good thing which was committed unto thee keep
by the Holy Ghost</q> (II. Tim. i. 14).
</p>

<p>
God gives to us a power within which
will hold our hearts in victory and
purity. <q>That good thing which was
committed unto thee, keep by the Holy
Ghost which dwelleth in us.</q> It is the Holy
Ghost; and when any thought or suggestion of
evil arises in our breast, the quick conscience
can instantly call upon the Holy Ghost to drive
it out, and He will expel it at the command of
faith or prayer, and keep us as pure as we are
willing to be kept. But when the will surrenders
and consents to evil, the Holy Ghost will
not expel it. God, then, requires us to stand in
holy vigilance, and He will do exceeding abundantly
for us as we hold fast that which is
good, and He will also be in us a spirit of vigilance,
showing us the evil and enabling us to
detect it, and to bring it to Him for expulsion
and destruction.
</p>

<p>
<q>O Spirit of Jesus fill us until we shall have
room only for Thee!</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>O, come as the heart-searching fire,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O, come as the sin-cleansing flood;</l>
<l>Consume us with holy desire,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And fill with the fulness of God.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 3.</head>

<p>
<q>Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be
joyous but grievous; nevertheless afterward</q> (Heb.
xii. 11).
</p>

<p>
God seems to love to work by paradoxes
and contraries. In the transformations
of grace, the bitter is the base
of the sweet, night is the mother of
day, and death is the gate of life.
</p>

<p>
Many people are wanting power. Now, how
is power produced? The other day we passed
the great works where the trolley engines are
supplied with electricity. We heard the hum
and roar of countless wheels, and we asked our
friend, <q>How do they make the power?</q>
<q>Why,</q> he said, <q>just by the revolution of
those wheels and the friction they produce.
The rubbing creates the electric current.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is very simple, and a trifling experiment
will prove it to any one.
</p>

<p>
And so when God wants to bring more power
into your life, He brings more pressure. He
is generating spiritual force by hard rubbing.
Some of us don't like it. Some of us don't understand,
and we try to run away from the
pressure, instead of getting the power and using
it to rise above the painful cause.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 4.</head>

<p>
<q>They were all filled with the Holy Ghost</q> (Acts ii. 4).
</p>

<p>
Blessed secret of spiritual purity, victory
and joy, of physical life and healing,
and all power for service. Filled
with the Spirit there is no room for
self or sin, for fret or care. Filled with the
Spirit we repel the elements of disease that are
in the air as the red-hot iron repels the water
that touches it. Filled with the Spirit we are
always ready for service, and Satan turns away
when he finds the Holy Ghost enrobing us in
His garments of holy flame. Not half-filled,
but filled with the Spirit is the place of victory
and power.
</p>

<p>
This is not only a privilege; it is a command,
and He who gave it will enable us to fulfill it
if we bring it to Him with an empty, honest,
trusting heart, and claim our privilege in the
name of Jesus and for the glory of God.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Holy Ghost, I bid Thee welcome;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Come and be my Holy Guest;</l>
<l>Heavenly Dove within my bosom,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Make Thy home and build Thy nest;</l>
<l>Lead me on to all Thy fulness,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Bring me to Thy Promised Rest,</l>
<l>Holy Ghost, I bid Thee welcome,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Come and be my Holy Guest.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 5.</head>

<p>
<q>I have overcome the world</q> (John xvi. 33).
</p>

<p>
Christ has overcome for us every one
of our four terrible foes&mdash;Sin, Sickness,
Sorrow, Satan. He has borne
our Sin, and we may lay all, even
down to our sinfulness itself, on Him. <q>I have
overcome for thee.</q> He has borne our sickness,
and we may detach ourselves from our
old infirmities and rise into His glorious life
and strength. He has borne our sorrows, and
we must not even carry a care, but rejoice
evermore, and even glory in tribulations also.
And He has conquered Satan for us, too, and
left him nailed to the cross, spoiled and dishonored
and but a shadow of himself. And
now we have but to claim His full atonement
and assert our victory, and so <q>overcome him
by the blood of the Lamb and the word of our
testimony.</q>
</p>

<p>
Beloved, are we overcoming sin? Are we
overcoming sickness? Are we overcoming
sorrow? Are we overcoming Satan?
</p>

<lg>
<l>Fear not, though the strife be long;</l>
<l>Faint not, though the foe be strong;</l>
<l>Trust thy glorious Captain's power;</l>
<l>Watch with Him one little hour,</l>
<l>Hear Him calling, <q rend='pre'>Follow me.</q></l>
<l><q>I have overcome for thee.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 6.</head>

<p>
<q>Lean not unto thine own understanding</q> (Prov.
iii. 5).
</p>

<p>
Faith is hindered by reliance upon human
wisdom, whether our own or the
wisdom of others. The devil's first
bait to Eve was an offer of wisdom, and
for this she sold her faith. <q>Ye shall be as
gods,</q> he said, <q>knowing good and evil,</q> and
from the hour she began to know she ceased to
trust. It was the spies that lost the Land of
Promise to Israel of old. It was their foolish
proposition to search out the land, and find out
by investigation whether God had told the
truth or not, that led to the awful outbreak of
unbelief that shut the doors of Canaan to a
whole generation. It is very significant that
the names of these spies are nearly all suggestive
of human wisdom, greatness and fame.
</p>

<p>
So in the days of Christ, it was the bondage
of the Jews to the traditions of their fathers
and the opinions of men, that kept them back
from receiving Him. <q>How can ye believe,</q>
He asked, <q>which receive honor from men, and
seek not that which cometh from God only?</q>
</p>

<p>
Let us trust Him with all our heart and lean
not to our own understanding.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 7.</head>

<p>
<q>It is more blessed to give than to receive</q> (Acts xx.
35).
</p>

<p>
How shall we know the difference between
the earthly and the heavenly
love? The one terminates on ourselves
and is partly ourself seeking its own
gratification. The other reaches out to God
and others, and finds its joy in glorifying Him
and blessing them. Love is unselfishness, and
the love that is not unselfish is not divine.
How much do we pray for others, and how
much for ourselves? What is the center of our
being? Ourselves, or our Lord and His people
and work? The Lord help us to know more
fully the meaning of that great truth, <q>It is
more blessed to give than to receive.</q> <q>He
that saveth his life shall lose it, and he that
loseth his life for My sake and the Gospel, shall
keep it unto life eternal.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Have you found some precious treasure,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Pass it on.</l>
<l>Have You found some holy pleasure,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Pass it on.</l>
<l>Giving out is twice possessing,</l>
<l>Love will double every blessing,</l>
<l>On to higher service pressing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Pass it on.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 8.</head>

<p>
<q>Pray Ye therefore</q> (Luke x. 2).
</p>

<p>
Prayer is the mighty engine that is to
move the missionary work. <q>Pray ye
therefore the Lord of the harvest that
He will send forth laborers into His
harvest.</q>
</p>

<p>
We are asking God to touch the hearts of
men every day by the Holy Ghost, so that they
shall be compelled to go abroad and preach
the Gospel. We are asking Him to wake them
up at night with the solemn conviction that the
heathen are perishing, and that their blood will
be upon their souls, and God is answering the
prayer by sending persons to us every day who
<q>feel that the King's business requireth haste.</q>
</p>

<p>
Beloved, pray, pray, pray; and as the incense
rises to the heavens, <q>there will be silence in
heaven</q> by the space of more than half an
hour, and the coals of fire will be emptied out
upon the earth, and the coming of the Lord
will begin to draw nearer. Pray till the Lord
of the harvest shall thrust forth laborers into
His harvest.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Send the coals of heavenly fire,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>From the altar of the skies;</l>
<l>Fill our hearts with strong desire,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Till our pray'rs like incense rise.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 9.</head>

<p>
<q>How ye ought to walk and please God</q> (I. Thess. iv. 1).
</p>

<p>
How many dear Christians are in the
place that the Lord has appointed
them, and yet the devil is harassing
their lives with a vague sense of not
quite pleasing the Lord. Could they just settle
down in the place that God has assigned
them and fill it sweetly and lovingly for Him
there would be more joy in their hearts and
more power in their lives. God wants us all in
various places, and the secret of accomplishing
the most for Him is to recognize our places
from Him and our service in it as pleasing
Him. In the great factory and machine there
is a place for the smallest screw and rivet as
well as the great driving wheel and piston, and
so God has His little screws whose business is
simply to stay where He puts them and to believe
that He wants them there and is making
the most of their lives in the little spaces that
they fill for Him.
</p>

<lg>
<l>There is something all can do,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Tho' you're neither wise nor strong;</l>
<l>You can be a helper true,</l>
<l>You can stand when friends are few,</l>
<l>Some lone heart has need of you,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>You can help along.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 10.</head>

<p>
<q>The peace of God which passeth all understanding
shall keep your hearts and minds</q> (Phil. iv. 7).
</p>

<p>
It is not peace with God, but the peace of
God. <q>The peace that passes all understanding</q>
is the very breath of God
in the soul. He alone is able to keep it,
and He can so keep it that <q>nothing shall offend
us.</q> Beloved, are you there?
</p>

<p>
God's rest did not come till after His work
was over, and ours will not. We begin our
Christian life by working, trying and struggling
in the energy of the flesh to save ourselves.
At last, when we are able to cease from
our own work, God comes in with His blessed
rest, and works His own Divine works in us.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Oh! have you heard the glorious word</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Of hope and holy cheer;</l>
<l>From heav'n above its tones of love</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Are lingering on my ear;</l>
<l>The blessed Comforter has come,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And Christ will soon be here.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oh, hearts that sigh there's succor nigh,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The Comforter is near;</l>
<l>He comes to bring us to our King,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And fit us to appear.</l>
<l>I'm glad the Comforter has come,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And Christ will soon be here.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 11.</head>

<p>
<q>But ye are a chosen generation, a peculiar people</q> (I. Peter ii. 9).
</p>

<p>
We have been thinking lately very
much of the strange way in which
God is calling a people out of a
people already called. The word
<foreign lang='el' rend='italic'>ecclesia</foreign>, or church, means called out, but God
is calling out a still more select body from the
church to be His bride&mdash;the specially prepared
ones for His coming.
</p>

<p>
We see a fine type of this in the story of
Gideon. When first he sounded the trumpet of
Abiezer there resorted to him more than thirty
thousand men; but these had to be picked, so a
first test was applied, appealing to their courage,
and all but ten thousand went back; but
there must be an election out of the election,
and so a second test was applied, appealing to
their prudence, caution and singleness of purpose,
and all but three hundred were refused;
and, with this little picked band, he raised the
standard against the Midianites, and through
the power of God won his glorious victory. So,
again, in our days, the Master is choosing His
three hundred, and by them He will yet win
the world for Himself. Let us be sure that we
belong to the <q>out and out</q> people.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 12.</head>

<p>
<q>They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way</q>
(Ps. cvii. 4).
</p>

<p>
All who fight the Lord's battles must
be content to die to all the favorable
opinions of men and all the flattery
of human praise. You cannot make
an exception in favor of the good opinions of
the children of God. It is very easy for the
insidious adversary to make this also all appeal
to the flesh. It is all right when God
sends us the approval of our fellow men, but
we must never make it a motive in our life,
but be content with the <q>solitary way</q> and
the lonely <q>wilderness.</q>
</p>

<p>
All such motives are poison and a taking
away from you of the strength with which you
are to give glory to God. It is not the fact
that all that see the face of the Lord do see
each other.
</p>

<p>
The man of God must walk alone with God.
He must be contented that the Lord knoweth that
God knows. It is such a relief to the natural
man within us to fall back upon human
countenances and human thoughts and sympathy,
that we often deceive ourselves and think
it <q>brotherly love,</q> when we are just resting
in the earthly sympathy of some fellow worm!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Keep yourselves in the love of God</q> (Jude 21).
</p>

<p>
Some time ago, we were enjoying a surpassingly
beautiful sunset. The western
skies seemed like a great archipelago
of golden islands, the masses in the
distance rising up into vast mountains of glory.
The hue of the sky was so gorgeous that it
seemed to reflect itself upon the whole atmosphere,
as we looked back from the west to the
eastern horizon. The whole earth was radiant
with glory. The fields had changed to strange,
red richness, and the earth seemed bathed with
the dews of heaven.
</p>

<p>
And so it is, when the love of God shines
through all our celestial sky, it covers everything
below, and life becomes radiant with its
light. Things that were hard become easy.
Things that were sharp become sweet. Labor
loses its burden, and sorrow becomes silver-lined
with hope and gladness.
</p>

<p>
There are two ways of living in His love.
One is constant trust, and the other is
constant obedience, and His own Word
gives the message for both. <q>If ye keep My
commandments ye shall live in My love,
even as I keep My Father's, and live in His
love.</q>
</p>


</div>

<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 14.</head>

<p>
<q>We are His workmanship</q> (Eph. ii. 10).
</p>

<p>
Christ sends us to serve Him, not in
our own strength, but in His resources
and might. <q>We are His workmanship,
created in Christ Jesus unto
good works, which God hath prepared that we
should walk in them.</q> We do not have to prepare
them; but to wear them as garments,
made to order for every occasion of our life.
</p>

<p>
We must receive them by faith and go forth
in His work, believing that He is with us, and
in us, as our all sufficiency for wisdom, faith,
love, prayer, power, and every grace and gift
that our work requires. In this work of faith
we shall have to feel weak and helpless, and
even have little consciousness of power. But
if we believe and go forward, He will be the
power and send the fruits.
</p>

<p>
The most useful services we render are those
which, like the sweet fruits of the wilderness,
spring from hours of barrenness. <q>I will bring
her into the wilderness and I will give her
vineyards from thence.</q> Let us learn to work
by faith as well as walk by faith, then we shall
receive even the end of our faith, the salvation
of precious souls, and our lives will bear fruit
which shall be manifest throughout all eternity.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 15.</head>

<p>
<q>Continue ye in My love</q> (John xv. 9).
</p>

<p>
Many atmospheres there are in which
we may live. Some people live in an
atmosphere of thought. Their faces
are thoughtful, minds intellectual.
They live in their ideas, their conceptions of
truth, their tastes, and esthetic nature. Some
people, again, live in their animal nature, in the
lusts of the flesh and eye, the coarse, low atmosphere
of a sensuous life, or something
worse. Some, again, live in a world of duty.
The predominating feature of their life is conscience,
and it carries with it a certain shadowy
fear that takes away the simple freedom
and gladness of life, but there is a rectitude,
and uprightness, a strictness of purpose, and of
conduct which cannot be gainsaid or questioned.
</p>

<p>
But Christ bids us live in an atmosphere of
love. <q>As My Father has loved Me, so have I
loved you; continue ye in My love.</q> In the
original it is, <q>Live in My love.</q> Love is the
atmosphere that He would have us ever live in,
that is, believing that He ever loves us, and
claiming His sweet approval and tender regard.
This is a life of love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 16.</head>

<p>
<q>The Lord will give grace and glory</q> (Ps. lxxxiv. 11).
</p>

<p>
The Lord will give grace and glory.
This word <emph>glory</emph> is very difficult to
translate, define and explain; but there
is something in the spiritual consciousness
of the quickened Christian that interprets
it. It is the overflow of grace; it is
the wine of life; it is the foretaste of heaven; it
is a flash from the Throne and an inspiration
from the heart of God which we may have
and in which we may live. <q>The glory which
Thou hast given Me I have given them,</q> the
Master prayed for us. Let us take it and live
in it. David used to say, <q>Wake up my glory.</q>
Ask God to wake up your glory and enable you
to mount up with wings as eagles, to dwell on
high and sit with Christ in the heavenly places.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Mounting up with wings as eagles,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Waiting on the Lord we rise,</l>
<l>Strength exchanging, life renewing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>How our spirit heavenward flies.</l>
<l>Then our springing feet returning,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Tread the pathway of the saint,</l>
<l>We shall run and not be weary,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>We shall walk and never faint.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 17.</head>

<p>
<q>He hath remembered His covenant forever</q> (Ps. cv. 8).
</p>

<p>
So long as you struggle under law, that is
by your own effort, sin shall have dominion
over you: but the moment you
step from under the shadow of Sinai,
throw yourself upon the simple grace of Christ
and His free and absolute gift of righteousness,
and take Him to be to you what He has pledged
Himself to be, your righteousness of thought
and feeling, and to keep you in spite of everything,
that ever can be against you, in His perfect
will and peace, the struggle is practically
over. Beloved, do you really know and believe
that this is the very promise of the Gospel,
the very essence of the new covenant, that
Christ pledges Himself to put His law in your
heart, and to cause you to walk in His statutes,
and to keep His judgments and do them? Do
you know that this is the oath which He sware
unto Abraham, that He would grant unto us.
<q>That we being delivered from the hands of our
enemies, and from all that hate us, might serve
Him without fear, in righteousness and holiness
before Him all the days of our life.</q> He
has sworn to do this for you, and He is faithful,
that promised. Trust Him ever.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 18.</head>

<p>
<q>Neither shall any plague come near thy dwelling</q>
(Ps. xci. 10).
</p>

<p>
We know what it is to be fireproof, to
be waterproof: but it is a greater
thing to be proof against sin. It is
possible to be so filled with the Spirit
and presence of Jesus that all the shafts of the
enemy glance off our heavenly armor; that all
the burrs and thistles which grow on the wayside
fail to stick to our heavenly robes; that all
the noxious vapors of the pit disappear before
the warm breath of the Holy Ghost, and we
walk with a charmed life even through the valley
of the shadow of death. The red hot iron
repels the water that touches it, and the fingers
that would trifle with it: and, if we are on
fire with the Holy Ghost, Satan will keep
his fingers off us, and the cold water that he
pours over us will roll off and leave us
unharmed: <q>for He that was begotten of God
keepeth us, and that wicked one toucheth us
not.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is said that before going into a malarious
region, it is well to fortify the system with
nourishing food. So we should be fed and
filled by the life of Christ in such a way that
the evil does not really touch our life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 19.</head>

<p>
<q>Launch out into the deep</q> (Luke v. 4).
</p>

<p>
Many difficulties and perplexities in
connection with our Christian life
might be best settled by a simple and
bold decision of our will to go forward
with the light we have and leave the
speculations and theories that we cannot decide
for further settlement. What we need is to
act, and to act with the best light we have, and
as we step out into the present duty and full
obedience, many things will be made plain
which it is no use waiting to decide.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, cut the Gordian knot, like Alexander,
with the sword of decision. Launch out
into the deep with a bold plunge, and Christ
will settle for you all the questions that you are
now debating, and more probably show you
their insignificance, and let you see that the
only way to settle them is to overleap them.
They are Satan's petty snares to waste your
time and keep you halting when you should be
marching on.
</p>

<lg>
<l>The mercy of God is an ocean divine,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>A boundless and fathomless flood;</l>
<l>Launch out in the deep, cut away the shore line,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And be lost in the fulness of God.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 20.</head>

<p>
<q>They which receive abundance of grace and the gift
of righteousness shall reign in life</q> (Rom. v. 17).
</p>

<p>
Precious souls sometimes fight tremendous
battles in order to attain to
righteousness in trying places. Perhaps
the heart has become wrong in some
matter where temptation has been allowed to
overcome, or at least to turn it aside from its
singleness unto God; and the conflict is a terrible
one as it seeks to adjust itself and be right
with God, and finds itself baffled by its own
spiritual foes, and its own helplessness, perplexity
and perversity. How dark and dreary
the struggle, and how helpless and ineffectual
it often seems at such times! It is almost sure
to strive in the spirit of the law, and the result
always is, and must ever be, condemnation and
failure. Every disobedience is met by a blow
of wrath, and discouragement, and it well nigh
sinks to despair. Oh, if the tempted and struggling
one could only understand or remember
what perhaps he has learned before, that Christ
is our righteousness, and that it is not by law
but by grace alone, <q>For sin shall not have dominion
over you, for ye are not under the law,
but under grace.</q> That is the secret of the
whole battle.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Casting all your care upon Him</q> (I. Peter v. 7).
</p>

<p>
Some things there are that God will not
tolerate in us. We must leave them.
Nehemiah would not talk with Sanballat
about his charges and fears, but
simply refused to have anything to do with the
matter&mdash;even to go into the temple and pray
about it. How very few things we really have
to do with in life. If we would only drop all
the needless things and simply do the things
that absolutely touch and require our attention
from morning till night, we would find what a
small slender thread life was; but we string
upon it a thousand imaginary beads that never
come, and burden ourselves with cares and
flurries that if we had trusted more, would
never have needed to preoccupy our attention.
Wise indeed was the testimony of the dear old
saint who said, in review of her past life, <q>I
have had a great many troubles in my life, especially
those that never came.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Trust and rest with heart abiding,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Like a birdling in its nest,</l>
<l>Underneath His feathers hiding,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Fold thy wings and trust and rest.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Trust and rest, trust and rest,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>God is working for the best.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 22.</head>

<p>
<q>Hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the
hope firm unto the end</q> (Heb. iii. 6).
</p>

<p>
The attitude of faith is simple trust. It
is Elijah saying to Ahab, <q>There is a
sound of abundance of rain.</q> But then
there comes usually a deeper experience
in which the prayer is inwrought; it is
Elijah on the mount, with his face between his
knees, travailing, as it were, in birth for the
promised blessing. He has believed for it&mdash;and
now he must take. The first is Joash
shooting the arrow out of the windows, but the
second is Joash smiting on the ground and following
up his faith by perseverance and victorious
testing.
</p>

<p>
It is in this latter place that many of us come
short. We ask much from God, and when God
proceeds to give it to us we are not found
equal to His expectation. We are made partakers
of Christ if we hold the beginning of
our confidence steadfast to the end, and trust
Him through it all.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Fainting soldier of the Lord,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Hear His sweet inspiring word,</l>
<l><q rend='pre'>I have conquered all thy foes.</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I have suffered all thy woes;</l>
<l>Struggling soldier, trust in Me,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>I have overcome for thee.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 23.</head>

<p>
<q>He is a new creature</q> (II. Cor. v. 17).
</p>

<p>
Resurrected, not raised. There is so
much in this distinction. The teaching
of human philosophy is that we
are to raise humanity to a higher plane.
This is not the Gospel. On the contrary, the
teaching of the cross is that humanity must die
and sink out of sight and then be resurrected,
not raised. Resurrection is not improvement.
It is not elevation, but it is a new supernatural
life lifting us from nothingness into God and
making us partakers of the Divine nature. It
is a new creation. It is an infinite elevation
above the highest plane. Let us not take less
than resurrection life.
</p>

<lg>
<l>I am crucified with Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And the cross has set me free;</l>
<l>I have ris'n again with Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And He lives and reigns in me.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>This the story of the Master,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Through the cross He reached the throne,</l>
<l>And like Him our path to glory,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Ever leads through death alone.</l>
</lg>

<p>
Lord, teach me the death-born life. Lord,
let me live in the power of Thy resurrection!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 24.</head>

<p>
<q>And again I say, rejoice</q> (Phil. iv. 4).
</p>

<p>
It is a good thing to rejoice in the Lord.
Perhaps you found the first dose ineffectual.
Keep on with your medicine,
and when you cannot feel any joy, when
there is no spring, and no seeming comfort and
encouragement, still rejoice, and count it all
joy. Even when you fall into divers temptations,
reckon it joy, and delight, and God will
make your reckoning good. Do you suppose
your Father will let you carry the banner of
His victory and His gladness on to the front of
the battle, and then coolly stand back and see
you captured or beaten back by the enemy?
Never! the Holy Spirit will sustain you in your
bold advance, and fill your heart with gladness
and praise, and you will find your heart all exhilarated
and refreshed by the fulness of the
heart within.
</p>

<p>
Lord, teach me to rejoice in Thee, and to
rejoice evermore.
</p>

<lg>
<l>The joy of the Lord is the strength of His people.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The sunshine that scatters their sadness and gloom;</l>
<l>The fountain that bursts in the desert of sorrow,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And sheds o'er the wilderness, gladness and bloom.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 25.</head>

<p>
<q>The beauty of holiness</q> (Ps. xxix. 2).
</p>

<p>
Some one remarked once that he did not
know more disagreeable people than
sanctified Christians. He probably
meant people that only profess sanctification.
There is an angular, hard, unlovely
type of Christian character that is not true holiness;
at least, not the highest type of it. It is
the skeleton without the flesh covering; it is
the naked rock without the vines and foliage
that cushion its rugged sides. Jesus was not
only virtuous and pure, but He was also beautiful
and full of the sweet attractiveness of love.
</p>

<p>
We read of two kinds of graces: First,
<q>Whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things
are lovely and of good report.</q> There are a
thousand little graces in Christian life that we
cannot afford to ignore. In fact, the last stages
in any work of art are always the finishing
touches; and so let us not wonder if God shall
spend a great deal of time in teaching us the
little things that many might consider trifles.
</p>

<p>
God would have His Bride without a spot or
even a wrinkle.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 26.</head>

<p>
<q>Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith</q> (Heb.
xii. 2).
</p>

<p>
Add to your faith&mdash;do not add to yourself.
This is where we make the mistake.
We must not only enter by
faith, but we must advance by faith
each step of the way. At every new stage we
shall find ourselves as incompetent and unequal
for the pressure as before, and we must take the
grace and the victory simply by faith. Is it
courage? We shall find ourselves lacking in
the needed courage; we must claim it by faith.
Is it love? Our own love will be inadequate;
but we must take His love, and we shall find it
given. Is it faith itself? We must have the
faith of God, and Christ in us will be the spirit
of faith, as well as the blessing that faith
claims. So our whole life from beginning to
end, is but Christ in us&mdash;in the exceeding riches
of His grace; and our everlasting song will be:
Not I; but Christ who liveth in me.
</p>

<lg>
<l>'Tis so sweet to walk with Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Step by step and day by day;</l>
<l>Stepping in His very footprints,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Walking with Him all the way.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 27.</head>

<p>
<q>What time I am afraid, I will trust in Thee</q> (Ps. lvi. 3).
</p>

<p>
We shall never forget a remark Mr.
George Mueller once made in answer
to a gentleman who asked him the
best way to have strong faith. <q>The
only way,</q> replied the patriarch of faith, <q>to
learn strong faith is to endure great trials. I
have learned my faith by standing firm amid
severe testings.</q> This is very true. The time
to trust is when all else fails. Dear one, if you
scarcely realize the value of your present opportunity,
if you are passing through great afflictions,
you are in the very soul of the strongest
faith, and if you will only let go, He will
teach you in these hours the mightiest hold
upon this throne which you can ever know.
<q>Be not afraid, only believe</q>; and if you are
afraid, just look up and say, <q>What time I am
afraid, I will trust in Thee,</q> and you will yet
thank God for the school of sorrow which was
to you the school of faith.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O brother, give heed to the warning,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And obey His voice to-day.</l>
<l>The Spirit to thee is calling,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O do not grieve Him away.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 28.</head>

<p>
<q>The fruit of the Spirit is all goodness</q> (Gal. v. 22).
</p>

<p>
Goodness is a fruit of the Spirit.
Goodness is just <q>Godness.</q> It is to
be like God. And God-like goodness
has special reference to the active
benevolence of God. The apostle gives us the
difference between goodness and righteousness
in this passage in Romans, <q>Scarcely for a
righteous man would one die, yet peradventure
for a good man some would even dare to die.</q>
The righteous man is the man of stiff, inflexible
uprightness; but he may be as hard as a
granite mountain side. The good man is that
mountain side all covered with velvet moss and
flowers, and flowing with cascades and springs.
Goodness respects <q>whatsoever things are
lovely.</q> It is kindness, affectionateness, benevolence,
sympathy, rejoicing with them that
do rejoice, and weeping with them that weep.
Lord, fill us with Thyself, and let us be God-men
and good men, and so represent Thy goodness.
</p>

<lg>
<l>There are lonely hearts to cherish,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>While the days are going by;</l>
<l>There are weary souls who perish,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>While the days are going by.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 29.</head>

<p>
<q>He will keep the feet of His saints</q> (I. Sam. ii. 9).
</p>

<p>
Perils as well as privileges attend the
higher Christian life. The nearer we
come to God, the thicker the hosts of
darkness in heavenly places. The safe
place lies in obedience to God's Word, singleness
of heart, and holy vigilance.
</p>

<p>
When Christians speak of standing in a place
where they do not need to watch, they are in
great danger. Let us walk in sweet and holy
confidence, and yet with holy, humble watchfulness,
and <q>He will keep the feet of His
saints.</q> And <q>now unto Him who is able to
keep us from stumbling, and present us faultless
before the presence of His glory, to the
only wise God, our Saviour, be glory, and majesty,
dominion and power, both now and forever.
Amen.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>What to do we often wonder,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As we seek some watchword true,</l>
<l>Lo, the answer God has given,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>What would Jesus do?</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>When the shafts of fierce temptation,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With their fiery darts pursue,</l>
<l>This will be your heavenly armor,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>What would Jesus do?</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 30.</head>

<p>
<q>I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and
be in health even as thy soul prospereth</q> (III. John 2).
</p>

<p>
In the way of righteousness is life and in
the pathway thereof is no death. That
is the secret of healing. Be right with
God. Keep so. Live in the consciousness
of it, and nothing can hurt you. Off from
the breastplate of righteousness will glance all
of the fiery darts of the devil, and faith be
stronger for every fierce assault. How true it
is, <q>Who is he that shall harm you if ye be followers
of that which is good?</q> And how true
also, <q>Holding faith and a good conscience,
which some having put away, concerning faith,
have made shipwreck.</q>
</p>

<p>
And yet again, <q>If thou wilt diligently hearken
to the voice of the Lord thy God, and wilt
keep all His statutes and commandments, I
will put none of these diseases upon thee that I
have brought upon the Egyptians; for I am the
Lord that healeth thee.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>There's a question God is asking</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Every conscience in His sight,</l>
<l>Let it search thine inmost being,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Is it right with God, all right?</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March 31.</head>

<p>
<q>What things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe
that ye receive them and ye shall have them</q> (Mark xi.
24).
</p>

<p>
Faith is not working up by will power
a sort of certainty that something is
coming to pass, but it is seeing as an
actual fact that God has said that this
thing shall come to pass, and that it is true,
and then rejoicing to know that it is true,
and just resting and entering into it because
God has said it. Faith turns the promise into a
prophecy. While it is merely a promise it is
contingent upon our co-operation; it may or
may not be. But when faith claims it, it becomes
a prophecy and we go forth feeling that
it is something that must be done because God
cannot lie.
</p>

<p>
Faith is the answer from the throne saying,
<q>It is done.</q> Faith is the echo of God's voice.
Let us catch it from on high. Let us repeat it,
and go out to triumph in its glorious power.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Hear the answer from the throne,</l>
<l>Claim the promise, doubting one,</l>
<l>God hath spoken, <q>It is done.</q></l>
<l>Faith hath answered, <q>It is done</q>;</l>
<l>Prayer is over, praise begun,</l>
<l>Hallelujah! It is done.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 1.</head>

<p>
<q>Vessels of mercy which he had afore prepared unto
glory</q> (Rom. ix. 23).
</p>

<p>
Our Father is fitting us for eternity. A
vessel fitted for the kitchen will find
itself in the kitchen. A vessel for the
art gallery or the reception room will
generally find itself there at last.
</p>

<p>
What are you getting fitted for? To be a
slop-pail to hold all the stuff that people pour
into your ears, or a vase to hold sweet fragrance
and flowers for the King's palace and a
harp of many strings that sounds the melodies
and harmonies of His love and praise? Each
one of us is going to his own place. Let us
get fitted now.
</p>

<lg>
<l>The days of heaven are Christly days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The Light of Heaven is He;</l>
<l>So walking at His side, our days</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As the days of heaven would be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>The days of heaven are endless days&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Days of eternity;</l>
<l>So may our lives and works endure</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>While the days of heaven shall be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Walk with us, Lord, through all the days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And let us walk with Thee;</l>
<l>'Til as Thy will is done in heaven,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>On earth so shall it be.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 2.</head>

<p>
<q>He shall dwell on high</q> (Isa. xxxiii. 16).
</p>

<p>
It is easier for a consecrated Christian to
live an out and out life for God than to
live a mixed life. A soul redeemed and
sanctified by Christ is too large for the
shoals and sands of a selfish, worldly, sinful
life. The great steamship, St. Paul, could sail
in deep water without an effort, but she could
make no progress in the shallow pool, or on
the Long Branch sands; the smallest tugboat
is worth a dozen of her there; but out in mid-ocean
she could distance them in an hour.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, your life is too large, too glorious,
too divine for the small place that you are
trying to live in. Your purpose is too petty;
arise and dwell on high in the resurrection life
of Jesus, and the inspiring hope of His blessed
coming.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Rise with thy risen Lord,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Ascend with Christ above,</l>
<l>And in the heavenlies walk with Him,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Whom seeing not, you love.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Walk as a heavenly race,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Princes of royal blood;</l>
<l>Walk as the children of the light,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The sons and heirs of God.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 3.</head>

<p>
<q>My expectation is from Him</q> (Ps. lxii. 5).
</p>

<p>
When we believe for a blessing, we
must take the attitude of faith, and
begin to act and pray as if we had
our blessing. We must treat God as
if He had given us our request. We must lean
our weight over upon Him for the thing that
we have claimed, and just take it for granted
that He gives it, and is going to continue to
give it. This is the attitude of trust. When
the wife is married, she at once falls into a new
attitude, and acts in accordance with the fact,
and so when we take Christ as a Saviour, as a
Sanctifier, as a Healer, or as a Deliverer, He
expects us to fall into the attitude of recognizing
Him in the capacity that we have claimed,
and expect Him to be to us all that we have
trusted Him for.
</p>

<lg>
<l>You may bring Him ev'ry care and burden,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>You may tell Him ev'ry need in pray'r,</l>
<l>You may trust Him for the darkest moment,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>He is caring, wherefore need you care?</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Faith can never reach its consummation,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>'Til the victor's thankful song we raise:</l>
<l>In the glorious city of salvation,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>God has told us all the gates are praise.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Resist the devil and he will flee</q> (James iv. 7).
</p>

<p>
Resist the devil, and he will flee from
you. This is a promise, and God will
keep it to us. If we resist the adversary,
He will compel him to flee, and
will give us the victory. We can, at all times,
fearlessly stand up in defiance, in resistance to
the enemy, and claim the protection of our
heavenly King just as a citizen would claim
the protection of the government against an
outrage or injustice on the part of violent
men. At the same time we are not to stand
on the adversary's ground anywhere by any
attitude or disobedience, or we give him a terrible
power over us, which, while God will restrain
in great mercy and kindness, He will not
fully remove until we get fully on holy
ground. Therefore, we must be armed with
the breastplate of righteousness, as well as the
shield of faith, if we would successfully resist
the prince of darkness and the principalities in
heavenly places.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Your full redemption rights</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With holy boldness claim,</l>
<l>And to the utmost fulness prove</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The power of Jesus' name.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 5.</head>

<p>
<q>Many shall be purified and made white and tried</q>
(Dan. xii. 10).
</p>

<p>
This is the promise for the Lord's coming.
It is more than purity. It is to be
made white, lustrous, or bright. To
be purified is to have the sin burned
out; to be made white is to have the glory of
the Lord burned in. The one is cleansing, the
other is illumination and glorification. The
Lord has both for us, but in order for us to
have both, we must be put into the fire to be
tried, and to be led into difficult and peculiar
places where Christ shall be more to us because
of the very extremity of the situation.
We are approaching these days. Indeed, they
are already around us, and they are the precursors
of the Lord's coming.
</p>

<p>
Blessed is he that keepeth his garments lest
he walk naked.
</p>

<lg>
<l>There are voices in the air, filling men with hope and fear;</l>
<l>There are signals everywhere that the end is drawing near,</l>
<l>There are warnings to prepare, for the King will soon be here;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O it must be the coming of the Lord!</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 6.</head>

<p>
<q>As we have many members in one body, so we being
many are one body in Christ</q> (Rom. xii. 4, 5).
</p>

<p>
Sometimes our communion with
God is cut off, or interrupted because
of something wrong with a brother, or
some lack of unity in the body of
Christ. We try to get at the Lord, but we cannot,
because we are separated from some member
of the Lord's body, or because there is
not the freedom of His love flowing through
every organic part. It does not need a blow
upon the head to paralyze the brain; a blow
upon some nerve may do it; or a wound in
some artery at the extremities may be fatal to
the heart. Therefore we must stand right with
all His children, and meet in the body of Christ
in the sweetest, fullest fellowship, if we would
keep our perfect communion with Christ Himself.
Sometimes we will find that an altered attitude
to one Christian will bring us into
the flood-tides of the Holy Ghost. It
seems impossible to have faith without
love, or to have Christ alone without the fulness
of fellowship with all His dear saints;
and if one member suffer, all suffer together,
and if one rejoice, all are blessed in common.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 7.</head>

<p>
<q>In Him we live and move</q> (Acts xvii. 28).
</p>

<p>
The hand of Gehazi, and even the staff
of Elisha could not heal the lifeless
boy. It needed the living touch of the
prophet's own divinely quickened
flesh to infuse vitality into the cold clay. Lip to
lip, hand to hand, heart to heart, he must touch
the child ere life could thrill his pulseless veins.
</p>

<p>
We must come into personal contact with
the risen Saviour, and have His very life quicken
our mortal flesh before we can know the
fulness and reality of His healing. This is the
most frequent cause of failure. People are
often trusting to something that has been done
to them, to something that they have done, or
something that they have believed intellectually;
but their spirit has not felt its way to the
heart of Christ, and they have not drawn His
love into their being by the hunger and thirst
of love and faith, and so they are not quickened.
The greatest need of our souls and bodies
is to know Jesus personally, to touch Him
constantly, to abide in Him continually.
</p>

<p>
May we this day lay aside all things that
could hinder our near approach to Him, and
walk hand in hand, heart to heart, with Jesus.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 8.</head>

<p>
<q>A merry heart doeth good like a medicine</q> (Prov.
xvii. 22).
</p>

<p>
King Solomon left among his wise
sayings a prescription for sick and sad
hearts, and it is one that we can safely
take. <q>A merry heart doeth good like
a medicine.</q> Joy is the great restorer and
healer. Gladness of spirit will bring health to
the bones and vitality to the nerves when all
other tonics fail, and all other sedatives cease
to quiet. Sick one, begin to rejoice in the
Lord, and your bones will flourish like an herb,
and your cheeks will glow with the bloom of
health and freshness. Worry, fear, distrust,
care, are all poison drops; joy is balm and healing;
and if you will but rejoice, God will give
power. He has commanded you to be glad and
rejoice; and He never fails to sustain His children
in keeping His commandments. Rejoice
in the Lord always, He says; which means no
matter how sad, how tempted, how sick, how
suffering you are, rejoice in the Lord just
where you are, and begin this moment.
</p>

<lg>
<l>The joy of the Lord is the strength of our body,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The gladness of Jesus, the balm for our pain,</l>
<l>His life and His fulness, our fountain of healing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>His joy, our elixir for body and brain.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 9.</head>

<p>
<q>I do always those things that please Him</q> (John
viii. 29).
</p>

<p>
It is a good thing to keep short accounts
with God. We were very much struck
some years ago with an interpretation of
this verse: <q>So every one of us shall
give an account of himself to God.</q> The
thought conveyed to our mind was, that of
accounting to God every day of our lives, so
that our accounts were settled daily, and for us
judgment was passed, as we lay down on our
pillows every night.
</p>

<p>
This is surely the true way to live. It is the
secret of great peace, and it will be a delightful
comfort when life is closing, or the Master
coming, to know that our account is settled,
and our judgment over, and for us there is only
waiting the glad <q>Well done, good and faithful
servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Step by step I'll walk with Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Just a moment at a time,</l>
<l>Heights I have not wings to soar to,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Step by step my feet can climb.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Jesus, keep me closer&mdash;closer,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Step by step and day by day</l>
<l>Stepping in Thy very foot-prints,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Walking with Thee all the way.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 10.</head>

<p>
<q>Hold fast the confidence</q> (Heb. iii. 6).
</p>

<p>
Seldom have we seen a sadder wreck
of even the highest, noblest Christian
character than when the enemy has
succeeded in undermining the simple
trust of a child of God, and got him into self-accusing
and condemnation. It is a fearful
place when the soul allows Satan to take the
throne and act as God, sitting in judgment on
its every thought and act; and keeping it in
the darkness of ceaseless condemnation. Well
indeed has the apostle told us to hold firmly
the shield of faith!
</p>

<p>
This is Satan's objective point in all his attacks
upon you, to destroy your trust. If he
can get you to lose your simple confidence in
God, he knows that he will soon have you at his
feet.
</p>

<p>
It is enough to wreck both the reason and
the life for the soul that has known the sweetness
of His love to lose its perfect trust in God.
<q>Beloved, hold fast your confidence and the rejoicing
of your hope firm unto the end.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Fear not to take your place</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With Jesus on the throne,</l>
<l>And bid the powers of earth and hell,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>His sovereign sceptre own.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 11.</head>

<p>
<q>Commit thy way unto the Lord</q> (Ps. xxxvii. 5).
</p>

<p>
Seldom have we heard a better definition
of faith than was given once in
one of our meetings by a dear old colored
woman, as she answered the question
of a young man how to take the Lord for
needed help.
</p>

<p>
In her characteristic way, pointing her finger
toward him, she said with great emphasis:
<q>You've just got to believe that He's done it,
and it's done.</q> The great danger with most of
us is, that after we ask Him to do it, we do not
believe that it's done, but we keep on helping
Him, and getting others to help Him; superintending
God and waiting to see how He is going
to do it.
</p>

<p>
Faith adds its amen to God's yea, and then
takes its hands off, and leaves God to finish
His work. Its language is, <q>Commit thy way
unto the Lord, trust also in Him; and He
worketh.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, I give up the struggle,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To Thee commit my way,</l>
<l>I trust Thy word forever,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And settle it all to-day.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 12.</head>

<p>
<q>They were as it were, complainers</q> (Num. xi. 1).
</p>

<p>
There is a very remarkable phrase in
the book of Numbers, in the account
of the murmuring of the children of
Israel in the wilderness. It reads like
this: <q>When the people, as it were, murmured.</q>
Like most marginal readings it
is better than the text, and a great world
of suggestive truth lies back of that little sentence.
</p>

<p>
In the distance we may see many a vivid
picture rise before our imagination of people
who do not dare to sin openly and unequivocally,
but manage to do it <q>as it were</q> only.
They do not lie straight, but they evade or
equivocate, or imply enough falsehood to escape
a real conviction of conscience. They do
not openly accuse God of unkindness or unfaithfulness,
but they strike at Him through
somebody else. They find fault with circumstances
and people and things that God has
permitted to come into their lives, and, <q>As it
were,</q> murmur. They do not perhaps go any
farther. They feel like doing it if they dared
to <q>charge God foolishly.</q>
</p>

<p>
These things were written for our warning.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Rejoice evermore</q> (I. Thess. v. 16).
</p>

<p>
Do not lose your joy whatever else you
lose. Keep the spirit of spring. <q>Rejoice
evermore,</q> and <q>Again I say,
rejoice.</q>
</p>

<p>
The loss of Canaan began in the spirit of
murmurings, <q>When the people, as it were,
murmured, it displeased the Lord.</q> The first
break in their fellowship, the first falter in
their advance, came when they began to doubt,
and grieve, and fret.
</p>

<p>
Oh, keep the heart from the perforations of
depression, discouragement, distrust and
gloom, for Satan cannot crush a rejoicing and
praiseful soul.
</p>

<p>
Look out for the beginning of sin. Don't
let the first touch of evil be harbored. It is the
first step that loses all. Oh, to keep so encased
in the Holy Ghost and in the very life of
Jesus that the evil cannot reach us!
</p>

<p>
The little fly on the inside of the window-pane
may be attacked by the little bird on the
outside, and it may seem to him that he is lost,
but the crystal pane between keeps him safely
from all danger as certainly as if it were a
mighty wall of iron.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 14.</head>

<p>
<q>I if I be lifted up from the earth will draw all men
unto Me</q> (John xii. 32).
</p>

<p>
A true and pure Christian life attracts
the world. There are hundreds of men
and women who find no inducements
whatever in the lives of ordinary
Christians to interest them in practical religion,
but who are won at once by a true and victorious
example. We believe that more men of
the world step at a bound right into a life of
entire consecration than into the intermediate
state which is usually presented to them at the
first stage.
</p>

<p>
In an audience once there was a man who
for half a century or more had lived without
Christ, and who was a very prominent citizen,
a man in public life, of irreproachable character,
lofty intellect, and a most winning spirit
and manners, but utterly out of sympathy with
the Christian life.
</p>

<p>
At the close of a service for the promotion
of deeper spiritual life he rose to ask the prayers
of the congregation, and before the end
of the week he was himself a true and acknowledged
follower of the Lord Jesus Christ.
He said, as he went home that night, <q>If that
is the religion of Jesus Christ, I want it.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 15.</head>

<p>
<q>Rooted and grounded in love</q> (Eph. iii. 17).
</p>

<p>
There is a very singular shrub, which
grows abundantly in the west, and is to
be found in all parts of Texas. It is
no less than the <q>mosquito tree.</q> It
is a very slim, and willowy looking shrub, and
would seem to be of little use for any industrial
purposes; but is has extraordinary roots growing
like great timbers underground, and possessing
such qualities of endurance in all situations
that it is used and very highly valued
for good pavements. The city of San Antonio is
said to be paved with these roots. It reminds
one of those Christians who make little show
externally, but their growth is chiefly underground&mdash;out
of sight, in the depth of God.
These are the men and women that God uses
for the foundation of things, and for the pavements
of that city of God which will stand
when all earthly things have crumbled into ruin
and dissolved into oblivion.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Deeper, deeper let the living waters flow;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Blessed Holy Spirit! River of Salvation!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 6'>All Thy fulness let me know.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 16.</head>

<p>
<q>Quit you like men</q> (I. Cor. xvi. 13).
</p>

<p>
Be brave. Cowards always get hurt.
Brave men generally come out unharmed.
Jeremiah was a hero. He
shrank from nothing. He faced his
king and countrymen with dauntless bravery,
and the result was he suffered no harm, but
came through the siege of Jerusalem without a
hair being injured. Zedekiah, the cowardly
king, was always afraid to obey God and be
true, and the result was that he at last met the
most cruel punishment that was ever inflicted
on human heart.
</p>

<p>
The men and women that stand from the
beginning true to their convictions have the
fewest tests. When God gives to you a good
trial, if you can stand the strain, He is not
always repeating it. When Abraham offered
up his son Isaac at Mount Moriah, it was a
final testing for the rest of his life. Do not let
Satan see that you are afraid of him, for he
will pursue to the death if he thinks that he
has a chance of getting you.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Be true, be true,</l>
<l>Whether friends be false or few,</l>
<l>Whatsoe'er betide, ever at His side,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Let Him always find you true.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 17.</head>

<p>
<q>He that ruleth his spirit is better than he that taketh a
city</q> (Prov. xvi. 32).
</p>

<p>
Temperance is true self-government.
It involves the grace of self-denial and
the spirit of a sound mind. It is that
poise of spirit that holds us quiet, self-possessed,
recollected, deliberate, and subject
ever to the voice of God and the conviction of
duty in every step we take. Many persons have
not that poise and recollected spirit. They are
drifting at the impulse of their own impressions,
moods, the influence of others, or the
circumstances around them. No desire should
ever control us. No purpose, however right,
should have such mastery over us that we are
not perfectly free. The pure affection may be
an inordinate affection. Our work itself may
be a selfish passion. That thing that we began
to do because it was God's will, we may cling
to and persist in ultimately, because it is our
own will. Lord, give us the spirit ever controlled
by Thy Spirit and will, and the eye
that looks to Thee every moment as the eyes
of a servant to the hands of her mistress. So
shall Thy service be our perfect freedom, and
our subjection divinest liberty.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 18.</head>

<p>
<q>They shall mount up with wings</q> (Isa. xl. 31).
</p>

<p>
<q>They shall mount up with wings as
eagles,</q> is God's preliminary; for the
next promise is, <q>They shall run and
not be weary, and they shall walk and
not faint.</q> Hours of holy exultation are necessary
for hours of patient plodding, waiting
and working. Nature has its springs, and so
has grace.
</p>

<p>
Let us rejoice in the Lord evermore, and
again we say, rejoice. And let us take Him
to be our continual joy, whose heart is a fountain
of blessedness, and who is anointed with
the oil of gladness above His fellows. We must
not be disappointed if the tides are not always
equally high. Even at low tide the ocean is
just as full. Human nature could not stand
perpetual excitement, even of a happy kind,
and God often rests in His love. Let us live
as self-unconsciously as possible, filling up
each moment with faithful service, and trusting
Him to stir the springs at His will, and as we
go on in faithful service we shall hear, again
and again, His glad whisper: <q>Well done, good
and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of
thy Lord.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 19.</head>

<p>
<q>Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for Him</q> (Ps.
xxxvii. 7).
</p>

<p>
It is a very suggestive thought that it is
in the Gospel of Mark, which is the Gospel
of service, we hear the Master saying
to His disciples, <q>Come ye apart into a
desert place, and rest awhile.</q> God wants rested
workers. There is an energy that may be tireless
and ceaseless, and yet still as the ocean's
depth, with the peace of God, which passes all
understanding. The two deepest secrets of
rest are, first, to be in harmony with the
will of God, and, secondly, to trust. <q>Great
peace have they that love Thy law,</q> expresses
the first. <q>Thou will keep him in perfect peace
whose mind is stayed on Thee, because he
trusteth in Thee,</q> describes the second. There
is a good deal in learning to <q>stay.</q> Sometimes
we forget that it literally means to
stop. It is a great blessing even to stop
all thought, and this is frequently the only
way to answer the devil's whirlwind of irritating
questions and thoughts, to be absolutely
still and refuse to even think, and meet
his evil voice with a simple and everlasting
<q>No!</q> If we will be still God will give us
peace.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 20.</head>

<p>
<q>There they dwelt with the King for His work</q> (I.
Chron. iv. 23).
</p>

<p>
It is easy for water to run down from the
upper springs, but it requires a divine
impulse to flow up from the valley in the
nether springs. There is nothing that
tells more of Christ than to see a Christian rejoicing
and cheerful in the humdrum and routine
of commonplace work, like the sailors that
stand on the dock loading the vessel and singing
as they swing their loads, keeping time
with the spirit of praise to the footsteps and
movements of labor and duty. No one has a
sweeter or higher ministry for Christ than a
business man or a serving woman who can
carry the light of heaven in their faces all day
long. Like the sea fowl that can plunge beneath
the briny tide with its beautiful and
spotless plumage, and come forth without one
drop adhering to its burnished breast and
glowing wings because of the subtle oil upon
the plumage that keeps the water from sticking,
so, thank God, we too may be so anointed
with the Holy Ghost that sin, sorrow and defilement
will not adhere to us, but we shall
pass through every sea as the ship passes
through the waves, in, but above the floods
around us.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 21.</head>

<p>
<q>The anointing which ye have received</q> (I. John ii. 27).
</p>

<p>
This is the secret of the deeper life, but
<q>That ye may be rooted and grounded
in love,</q> is the substance of it, and the
sweetness of it. The fulness of the
divine love in the heart will make everything
easy. It is very easy to do things that we love
to do, and it is very easy to trust one whom
we love, and the more we realize their love the
more we will trust them for it. It is the source
of healing. The tide of love flowing through
our bodies will strangely strengthen our very
frame, and the love of our Lord will become a
continual spring of youth and freshness in our
physical being. The secret of love is very
simple. It is to take the heart of Jesus for our
love and claim its love for every need of life,
whether it be toward God or toward others.
It is very sweet to think of persons in this way,
<q>I will take the heart of Jesus toward them, to
let me love them as He loves them.</q> Then we
can love even the unworthy in some measure,
if we shall see them in the light of His love
and hope, as they shall be, and not as they now
are, unworthy of our love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 22.</head>

<p>
<q>Christ is the head</q> (Eph. v. 23).
</p>

<p>
Often we want people to pray for us
and help us, but always defeat our object
when we look too much to them
and lean upon them. The true secret
of union is for both to look upon God, and in
the act of looking past themselves to Him they
are unconsciously united. The sailor was
right when he saw the little boy fall overboard
and waited a minute before he plunged to his
rescue. When the distracted mother asked
him in agony why he had waited so long, he
sensibly replied: <q>I knew that if I went in
before he would clutch and drag me down. I
waited until his struggles were over, and then
I was able to help him when he did not grasp
me too strongly.</q>
</p>

<p>
When people grasp us too strongly, either
with their love or with their dependence, we
are intuitively conscious that they are not
looking to God, and we become paralyzed in
our efforts to help them. United prayer, therefore,
requires that the one for whom we pray
be looking away from us to the Lord Jesus
Christ, and we together look to Him alone.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 23.</head>

<p>
<q>An high priest touched with the feeling of our infirmities</q>
(Heb. iv. 15).
</p>

<p>
Some time ago we were talking with a
greatly suffering sister about healing,
who was much burdened physically
and desirous of being able to trust the
Lord for deliverance. After a little conversation
we prayed with her, committing her case
to the Lord for absolute trust and deliverance
as she was prepared to claim. As soon as we
closed our prayer she grasped our hand, and
asked us to unite with her in the burden that
was most upon her heart, and then, without a
word of reference to her own healing, or the
burden under which she was being crushed to
death, she burst into such a prayer for a poor
orphan boy, of whom she had just heard that
day, as we have never heard surpassed for
sympathy and love, imploring God to help him
and save him, and sobbing in spasmodic agony
of love many times during her prayer, and
then she ceased without even referring to her
own need. We were deeply touched by the
spectacle of love, and we thought how the
Father's heart must be touched for her own
need.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 24.</head>

<p>
<q>Fret not thyself in any wise</q> (Ps. xxxvii. 8).
</p>

<p>
A life was lost in Israel because a pair
of human hands were laid unbidden
upon the ark of God. They were
placed upon it with the best intent to
steady it when trembling and shaking as the
oxen drew it along the rough way, but they
touched God's work presumptuously, and they
fell paralyzed and lifeless. Much of the life of
faith consists in letting things alone. If we
wholly trust an interest to God we can keep
our hands off it, and He will guard it for us
better than we can help Him. <q>Rest in the
Lord and wait patiently for Him. Fret not
thyself in any wise because of him that prospereth
in the way, because of the man that
bringeth wicked devices to pass.</q> Things may
seem to be going all wrong, but He knows as
well as we; and He will arise in the right
moment if we are really trusting Him so fully
as to let Him work in His own way and time.
There is nothing so masterly as inactivity in
some things, and there is nothing so hurtful as
restless working, for God has undertaken to
work His sovereign will.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 25.</head>

<p>
<q>The very God of Peace sanctify you wholly</q> (I.
Thess. v. 23).
</p>

<p>
A great tidal wave is bearing up the
stranded ship, until she floats above
the bar without a straining timber or
struggling seaman, instead of the ineffectual
and toilsome efforts of the struggling
crew and the strain of the engines, which had
tried in vain to move her an inch until that heavenly
impulse lifted her by its own attraction.
</p>

<p>
It is God's great law of gravitation lifting
up, by the warm sunbeams, the mighty iceberg
which a million men could not raise a single
inch, but melts away before the rays and the
warmth of the sunshine, and rises in clouds of
evaporation to meet its embrace until that cold
and heavy mass is floating in fleecy clouds of
glory in the blue ocean of the sky.
</p>

<p>
How easy all this! How mighty! How
simple! How divine! Beloved, have you
come into the divine way of holiness! If you
have, how your heart must swell with gratitude!
If you have not, do you not long for
it, and will you not unite in the prayer of the
text that the very God of peace will sanctify
you wholly?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 26.</head>

<p>
<q>Strangers and pilgrims</q> (Heb. xi. 13).
</p>

<p>
If you have ever tried to plough a straight
furrow in the country&mdash;we are sorry for
the man that does not know how to
plough and more sorry for the man that
is too proud to want to know&mdash;you have found
it necessary to have two stakes in a line and to
drive your horses by these stakes. If you have
only one stake before you, you will have no
steadying point for your vision, but you can
wiggle about without knowing it and make
your furrows as crooked as a serpent's coil;
but if you have two stakes and ever keep them
in line, you cannot deviate an inch from a
straight line, and your furrow will be an arrow
speeding to its course.
</p>

<p>
This has been a great lesson to us in our
Christian life. If we would run a straight
course, we find that we must have two stakes,
the near and the distant. It is not enough to be
living in the present, but it is a great and
glorious thing to have a distant goal, a definite
object, a clear purpose before us for which
we are living, and unto which we are shaping
our present.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 27.</head>

<p>
<q>The sweetness of the lips</q> (Prov. xvi. 21).
</p>

<p>
Spiritual conditions are inseparably
connected with our physical life. The
flow of the divine life-currents may be
interrupted by a little clot of blood;
the vital current may leak out through a very
trifling wound.
</p>

<p>
If you want to keep the health of Christ,
keep from all spiritual sores, from all heart
wounds and irritations. One hour of fretting
will wear out more vitality than a week of
work; and one minute of malignity, or rankling
jealousy or envy will hurt more than a
drink of poison. Sweetness of spirit and joyousness
of heart are essential to full health.
Quietness of spirit, gentleness, tranquility,
and the peace of God that passes all understanding,
are worth all the sleeping draughts
in the country.
</p>

<p>
We do not wonder that some people have
poor health when we hear them talk for half
an hour. They have enough dislikes, prejudices,
doubts, and fears to exhaust the strongest
constitution.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, if you would keep God's life and
strength, keep out the things that kill it; keep
it for Him, and for His work, and you will find
enough and to spare.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 28.</head>

<p>
<q>For it is God which worketh in you</q> (Phil. ii. 13).
</p>

<p>
Sanctification is the gift of the
Holy Ghost, the fruit of the Spirit, the
grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the prepared
inheritance of all who enter in,
the greatest obtainment of faith, not the attainment
of works. It is divine holiness, not human
self-improvement, nor perfection. It is
the inflow into man's being of the life and
purity of the infinite, eternal and Holy One,
bringing His own perfection and working out
His own will. How easy, how spontaneous,
how delightful this heavenly way of holiness!
Surely it is a <q>highway</q> and not the low way
of man's vain and fruitless mortification.
</p>

<p>
It is God's great elevated railway, sweeping
over the heads of the struggling throngs
who toil along the lower pavement when they
might be borne along on His ascension pathway,
by His own almighty impulse. It is
God's great elevator carrying us up to the
higher chambers of His palace, without over-laborious
efforts, while others struggle up the
winding stairs and faint by the way.
</p>

<p>
Let us to-day so fully take Him that He can
<q>cause us to walk in His statutes.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 29.</head>

<p>
<q>Love never faileth</q> (I. Cor. xiii. 8).
</p>

<p>
In our work for God it is a great thing to
find the key to men's hearts, and recognize
something good as a point of contact
for our spiritual influence. When
Jesus met the woman at Samaria He immediately
seized hold of the best things in her, and
by this He reached her heart, and drew from
her a willing confession of her salvation. A
Scotchman once said that his salvation was all
due to the fact that a good man (Lord Shaftsbury,
we believe) once put his arms around
him and said, <q>John, by the grace of God we
will make a man of you yet.</q>
</p>

<p>
The old legend tells the story of a poor, dead
dog lying on the street in the midst of the
crowd, every one of whom was having something
to say, until Jesus came along, and immediately
began to admire its beautiful teeth.
He had something kind to say even of him.
</p>

<lg>
<l>There is but One can live and love like this;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The Christ-love from the living Christ must spring.</l>
<l>O! Jesus! come and live Thy life in me,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And all Thy heaven of love and blessing bring.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April 30.</head>

<p>
<q>Love believeth all things</q> (I. Cor. xiii. 7).
</p>

<p>
Beautiful is the expression in the
Book of Isaiah which reflects with exceeding
sweetness the love of our dear
Lord. He said, <q>They are My people,
children that will not lie; so He was their Saviour.</q>
They did lie, but He would not believe
it. At least He speaks as if He would
not believe it in the greatness of His love, because
they were His people. He has not seen
iniquity in Jacob nor perversity in Israel.
There is plenty of it to see, and the devil sees
it all, and a good many people are only too glad
to see it; but the dear Father will not see it.
He covers it with His love and the precious
blood of His dear atoning Son. Such a wonderful
love ought surely to make us gentler to
others, and more anxious to cause our Father
less need to hide His loving eyes from our imperfections
and faults.
</p>

<p>
If we have the mind and heart of Christ,
we shall clothe even the world with those
graces which faith can claim for them, and
try our best to count them as if they were
real, and by love and prayer we shall at
length make them real. <q>Love believeth all
things.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 1.</head>

<p>
<q>The fruit of the Spirit is gentleness</q> (Gal. v. 22).
</p>

<p>
Nature's harshness has melted away
and she is now beaming with the
smile of spring, and everything
around us whispers of the gentleness
of God. This beautiful fruit is in lovely harmony
with the gentle month of which it is the
keynote. May the Holy Spirit lead us, beloved,
these days, into His sweetness, quietness,
and gentleness, subduing every coarse, rude,
harsh, and unholy habit, and making us like
Him, of whom it is said, <q>He shall not strive,
nor cry, nor cause His voice to be heard in the
streets.</q>
</p>

<p>
The man who is truly filled with Jesus will
always be a gentleman. The woman who is
baptized of the Holy Ghost, will have the instincts
of a perfect lady, although low born and
little bred in the schools of earthly refinement.
Beloved, let us receive and reflect the gentleness
of Christ, the spirit of the holy babe, until
the world will say of us, as the polished and infidel
Chesterfield once said of the saintly Fenelon,
<q>If I had remained in his house another
day, I should have had to become a Christian.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lord, help us to-day, to so yield to the gentle
Dove-Spirit, that our lives shall be as His life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 2.</head>

<p>
<q>Always causeth us to triumph</q> (II. Cor. ii. 14).
</p>

<p>
How these words help us. Think of
them when the people rasp you, when
the devil pricks you with his fiery
darts, when your sensitive, self-willed
spirit chafes or frets; let a gentle voice be
heard above the strife, whispering, <q>Keep
sweet, keep sweet!</q> And, if you will but heed
it quickly, you will be saved from a thousand
falls and kept in perfect peace.
</p>

<p>
True, you cannot keep yourself sweet, but
God will keep you if He sees that it is your
fixed, determined purpose to be kept sweet,
and to refuse to fret or grudge or retaliate.
The trouble is, you rather enjoy a little irritation
and morbidness. You want to cherish the
little grudge, and sympathize with your hurt
feelings, and nurse your little grievance.
</p>

<p>
Dear friends, God will give you all the love
you really want and honestly choose. You can
have your grievance or you can have the peace
that passeth all understanding; but you cannot
have both.
</p>

<p>
There is a balm for a thousand heartaches,
and a heaven of peace and power in these two
little words&mdash;KEEP SWEET.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 3.</head>

<p>
<q>My peace I give unto you</q> (John xiv. 27).
</p>

<p>
Here lies the secret of abiding peace&mdash;God's
peace. We give ourselves to
God and the Holy Spirit takes possession
of our breast. It is indeed <q>Peace,
Peace.</q> But it is just then that the devil begins
to turn us away, and he does it through
our thoughts, diverting or distracting them as
occasion requires. This is the time to prove
the sincerity of our consecration and the singleness
of our heart. If we truly desire His
Presence more than all else, we will turn away
from every conflicting thought and look steadily
up to Jesus. But if we desire the gratification
of our impulse more than His Presence,
we will yield to the passionate word or the frivolous
thought or the sinful diversion, and when
we come back our Shepherd has gone, and we
wonder why our peace has departed. Failure
occurs often in some trifling thing, and the soul
failure has occurred in some trifling thing,
usually a thought or word, and the soul which
would not have feared to climb a mountain
has really stumbled over a straw.
</p>

<p>
The real secret of perfect rest is to be jealously,
habitually occupied with Jesus.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Greater is He that is in you than he that is in the
world</q> (I. John iv. 4).
</p>

<p>
Satan loves to trip us over little things.
The reason of this is because it is generally
a greater victory for him, and
shows that he can upset us by a shaving
and knock us down with a straw. It is the
old boast of the Jebusite, when they told David
they could defend Jerusalem by a garrison
of the blind and lame. Most of us get on better
in our great struggles than we do in our
little ones. It was over a little apple that Adam
fell, but all the world was wrecked. Look out,
beloved, for the little stumbling blocks, and
do not let Satan laugh at you, and tell his myrmidons
how he tripped you over an orange
peel. And, too, when the devil wants to stop
some great blessing in our lives, he generally
throws some ugly shadow over it and makes it
look distasteful to us. How many of us have
been keeping back from truths, places and persons
in which God has reappeared, the greatest
blessing of our lives, and the devil has succeeded
in keeping us away from them by some
false or foolish prejudice!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 5.</head>

<p>
<q>If ye then be risen</q> (Col. iii. 1).
</p>

<p>
God is waiting this morning to mark the
opening hours for every ready and
willing heart with a touch of life and
power that will lift our lives to higher
pleasures and offer to our vision grander horizons
of hope and holy service.
</p>

<p>
We shall not need to seek far to discover our
risen Lord. He was in advance even of the
earliest seeker that Easter morning, and He
will be waiting for us before the break of day
with His glad <q>All Hail,</q> if we have only eyes
to see and hearts to welcome and obey Him.
</p>

<p>
What is His message to us this spring time?
<q>If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those
things which are above, where Christ sitteth
on the right hand of God. For ye are dead,
and your life is hid with Christ in God.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is not risen with Christ, but <emph>resurrected</emph>.
It is not rising a little higher in the old life,
but it is rising from the dead. The resurrection
will mean no more than the death has
meant. Only so far as we are really dead shall
we live with Him.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 6.</head>

<p>
<q>Reckon ye also yourselves to be alive unto God</q>
(Rom. vi. 11).
</p>

<p>
Death is but for a moment. Life is
forevermore. Live, then, ye children
of the resurrection, on His glorious
life, more and more abundantly, and
the fulness of your life will repel the intrusion
of self and sin, and overcome evil with good,
and your existence will be, not the dreary repression
of your own struggling, but the
springing tide of Christ's spontaneous overcoming
life.
</p>

<p>
Once in a religious meeting a dear brother
gave us a most exhilarating talk on the risen
life. Then another brother got up and talked
for a long time on the necessity of self-crucifixion.
A cold sweat fell over us all, and we
could scarcely understand why. But after he
had got through, a good sister clarified the
whole situation by saying, that <q>Pastor S. had
taken us all out of the grave by his address,
and then Pastor P. has put us back again.</q>
</p>

<p>
Don't go back into the grave again after you
have got out, but live like Him, who <q>liveth
and was dead, and lo! He is alive forevermore,
and has the keys of hell and of death.</q> Keep
out of the tomb, and keep the door locked, and
the keys in His risen hands.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 7.</head>

<p>
<q>I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you</q>
(Gal. iv. 19).
</p>

<p>
It is a blessed moment when we are born
again and a new heart is created in us
after the image of God. It is a more
blessed moment when in this new heart
Christ Himself is born and the Christmas time
is reproduced in us as we, in some real sense,
become incarnations of the living Christ. This
is the deepest and holiest meaning of Christianity.
It is expressed in Paul's prayer for
the Galatians. <q>My little children, for whom I
travail in birth again till Christ be formed in
you.</q>
</p>

<p>
There will yet be a more glorious era when
we, like Him, shall be transformed and transfigured
into His glory, and in the resurrection
shall be, in spirit, soul and body, even as
He.
</p>

<p>
Let us live, under the power of the inspiring
thought, incarnations of Christ; not living
our life, but the Christ-life, and showing forth
the excellencies, not of ourselves, but of Him
who hath called us <q>out of darkness into His
marvelous light</q>; so our life shall be to all
the re-living in our position of the Christ
life, as He would have lived it, had He been
here.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 8.</head>

<p>
<q>Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die</q>
(John xii. 24).
</p>

<p>
Death and resurrection are the central
ideas of nature and Christianity. We
see them in the transformation of the
chrysalis, in the buried seed bursting
into the bud and blossom of the spring, in the
transformation of the winding sheet of winter
to the many tinted robes of spring. We see it
all through the Bible in the symbol of circumcision,
with its significance of death and life,
in the passage of the Red Sea and the Jordan
leading out and leading in, and in the Cross of
Calvary and the open grave of the Easter
morning. We see it in every deep spiritual life.
Every true life is death-born, and the deeper
the dying the truer the living. We doubt not
the months that have been passing have shown
us all many a place where there ought to be a
grave, and many a lingering shred of the natural
and sinful which we would gladly lay
down in a bottomless grave. God help us to
pass the irrevocable sentence of death and to
let the Holy Ghost, the great undertaker, make
the interment eternal. Then our life shall be
ever budding and blossoming and shedding
fragrance over all.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 9.</head>

<p>
<q>All hail</q> (Matt. xxviii. 9).
</p>

<p>
It was a stirring greeting which the Lord
of Life spake to His first disciples on
the morning of the resurrection. It is a
bright and radiant word which in His
name we would speak to His beloved children
at the commencement of another day. It
means a good deal more than appears on the
surface. It is really a prayer for our health,
but which none but those who believe in the
healing of the body can fully understand. A
thoughtful friend suggested once that the
word <q>hail</q> really means health, and it is just
the old Saxon form of the word. We all know
that a hale person is a healthy person. Our
Lord's message, therefore, was substantially
that greeting which from time immemorial we
give to one another when we meet. <q>How is
your health?</q> <q>How are you?</q> or, better
still, <q>I wish you health.</q> Christ's wish is
tantamount to a promise and command. It
is very similar to the Apostle John's benediction
to his dear friend Gaius, and we
would re-echo it to our beloved friends
according to the fulness of the Master's
will.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 10.</head>

<p>
<q>I am alive forevermore</q> (Rev. i. 18).
</p>

<p>
Here is the message of the Christ of the
cross and the still more glorious and
precious Christ of the resurrection. It
is beautiful and inspiring to note the
touch of light and glory with which these simple
words invest the cross. It is not said
I am He that was dead and liveth, but <q>I
am He that liveth and was dead, but am alive
forevermore.</q> Life is mentioned before the
death. There are two ways of looking at the
cross. One is from the death side and the
other from the life side. One is the Ecce
Homo and the other is the glorified Jesus with
only the marks of the nails and the spear. It
is thus we are to look at the cross. We are
not to carry about with us the mould of the
sepulchre, but the glory of the resurrection. It
is not the Ecce Homo, but the Living Christ.
And so our crucifixion is to be so complete that
it shall be lost in our resurrection and we shall
even forget our sorrow and carry with us the
light and glory of the eternal morning. So let
us live the death-born life, ever new and full
of a life that can never die, because it is <q>dead
and alive forevermore.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 11.</head>

<p>
<q>Whosoever will save his life shall lose it</q> (Luke
ix. 24).
</p>

<p>
First and foremost Christ teaches resurrection
and life. The power of
Christianity is life. It brings us not
merely law, duty, example, with high
and holy teaching and admonition. It brings
us the power to follow the higher ideal and the
life that spontaneously does the things commanded.
But it is not only life, but resurrection
life.
</p>

<p>
And it begins with a real crisis, a definite
transaction, a point of time as clear as the
morning dawn. It is not an everlasting dying
and an eternal struggle to live. But it is all
expressed in a tense that denotes definiteness,
fixedness and finished action. We actually
died at a certain point and as actually began to
live the resurrection life.
</p>

<p>
Let us reckon ourselves to be dead indeed
unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus
Christ.
</p>

<lg>
<l>And death is only the pathway and portal,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To the life that shall die nevermore;</l>
<l>And the cross leadeth up to the crown everlasting,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The Jordan to Canaan's bright shore.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 12.</head>

<p>
<q>Tell me where Thou makest Thy flock to rest at
noon</q> (Song of Solomon i. 7).
</p>

<p>
Beloved, do you not long for God's
quiet, the inner chambers, the shadow
of the Almighty, the secret of His
presence? Your life has been, perhaps,
all driving and doing, or perhaps straining,
struggling, longing and not obtaining.
Oh, for rest! to lie down upon His bosom and
know that you have all in Him, that every
question is answered, every doubt settled, every
interest safe, every prayer answered, every desire
satisfied. Lift up the cry, <q>Tell me, O Thou
whom my soul loveth, where Thou feedest,
where Thou makest Thy flock to rest at noon</q>!
</p>

<p>
Blessed be His name! He has this for us,
His exclusive love&mdash;a love which each individual
somehow feels is all for himself, in which
he can lie alone upon His breast and have a
place which none other can dispute; and yet
His heart is so great that He can hold a thousand
millions just as near, and each heart seem
to possess Him just as exclusively for his own,
even as the thousand little pools of water upon
the beach can reflect the sun, and each little
pool seems to have the whole sun embosomed
in its beautiful depths. And Christ can teach
us this secret of His inmost love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Abide in Me</q> (John xv. 4).
</p>

<p>
Christianity may mean nothing
more than a religious system. Christian
life may mean nothing more than
an earnest and honest attempt to follow
and imitate Christ.
</p>

<p>
Christ life is more than these, and expresses
our actual union with the Lord Jesus Christ,
and He is undoubtedly in us as the life and
source of all our experience and work.
</p>

<p>
This conception of the highest Christian life
is at once simpler and sublimer than any other.
We do not teach in these pages, that the purpose
of Christ's redemption is to restore us to
Adamic perfection, for if we had it we should
lose it to-morrow; but rather to unite us with
the Second Adam, and lift us up to a higher
plane than our first parents ever knew.
</p>

<p>
This is the only thing that can reconcile the
warring elements of diverse schools of teaching
with respect to Christian life.
</p>

<p>
The Spirit of God will lead us to have no
controversy respecting mere theories, but simply
hold to the person and life of Jesus Christ
Himself, and the privilege of being united to
Him, and living in constant dependence upon
His keeping power and grace.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 14.</head>

<p>
<q>But God</q> (Luke xii. 20).
</p>

<p>
What else do we really need? What
else is He trying to make us understand?
The religion of the Bible is
wholly supernatural. The one resource
of faith has always been the living God,
and Him alone. The children of Israel were
utterly dependent upon Jehovah as they
marched through the wilderness, and the one
reason their foes feared them and hastened to
submit themselves was that they recognized
among them the shout of a King, and the presence
of One compared with whom all their
strength was vain.
</p>

<p>
<q>Wherein,</q> asked Moses, <q>shall we be separated
from all other peoples of the earth, except
it be in this that Thou goest before us.</q>
</p>

<p>
A church relying on human wisdom, wealth
or resources, ceases to be the body of Christ
and becomes an earthly society. When we
dare to depend entirely upon God and without
doubt, the humblest and feeblest agencies will
become <q>mighty through God, to the pulling
down of strongholds.</q> May the Holy Spirit
give to us at all times, His own conception of
these two great words, <q>But God.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 15.</head>

<p>
<q>I press toward the mark</q> (Phil. iii. 14).
</p>

<p>
We have thought much about what we
have received. Let us think of the
things we have not received, of some
of the vessels that have not yet been
filled, of some of the places in our life that the
Holy Ghost has not yet possessed for God,
and signalized by His glory and His presence.
</p>

<p>
Shall the coming months be marked by a
diligent, heart-searching application of <q>the
rest of the oil,</q> to the yet unoccupied possibilities
of our life and service?
</p>

<p>
Have we known His fulness of grace in our
spiritual life? Have we tasted a little of His
glory? Have we believed His promise for the
mind, the soul, the spirit? Have we known
all His possibilities for the body? Have we
tested Him in His power to control the events
of providence, and to move the hearts of men
and nations? Has He opened to us the treasure-house
of God, and met our financial needs
as He might? Have we even begun to understand
the ministry of prayer, as God would
have us exercise it? God give us <q>the rest of
the oil</q>!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 16.</head>

<p>
<q>It is not in man that walketh to direct his steps</q>
(Jer. x. 23).
</p>

<p>
United to Jesus Christ as your Redeemer,
you are accepted in the Beloved.
He does not merely take my
place as a man and settle my debts.
He does that and more. He comes to give a
perfect ideal of what a man should be. He is
the model man, not for us to copy, for that
would only bring discouragement and utter
failure; but He will come and copy Himself in
us. If Christ lives in me, I am another Christ.
I am not like Him, but I have the same mind.
The very Christ is in me. This is the foundation
of Christian holiness and Divine healing.
Christ is developing a perfect life within us.
Some say man can never be perfect. <q>It is not
in man that walketh to direct his steps.</q> We
are all a lot of failures. This is true, but we
should go further. We must take God's provision
for our failure and rise above it through
His grace. We must take Jesus as a substitute
for our miserable self. We must give up the
good as well as the bad and take Him instead.
It is hard for us to learn that the very good
must go, but we must have Divine impulses
instead of even our best attainments.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 17.</head>

<p>
<q>To him that overcometh, will I give</q> (Rev. ii. 17).
</p>

<p>
A precious secret of Christian life is
to have Jesus dwelling within the heart
and conquering things that we never
could overcome. It is the only secret
of power in your life and mine, beloved. Men
cannot understand it, nor will the world believe
it; but it is true, that God will come to dwell
within us, and be the power, and the purity,
and the victory, and the joy of our life. It is
no longer now, <q>What is the best that I can
do?</q> but the question is, <q>What is the best
that Christ can do?</q> It enables us to say, with
Paul, in that beautiful passage in Philippians,
<q>I know both how to be abased, and I know
how to abound, everywhere and in all things, I
am instructed both to be full and to be hungry,
both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all
things through Christ, which strengtheneth me.</q>
</p>

<p>
With this knowledge I go forth to meet my
testings, and the secret stands me good. It
keeps me pure and sweet, as I could never keep
myself. Christ has met the adversary and
defeated him for me. Thanks be unto God
who giveth us the victory through Jesus
Christ.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 18.</head>

<p>
<q>For ye are dead</q> (Col. iii. 3).
</p>

<p>
Now, this definite, absolute and final
putting off of ourselves in an act of
death, is something we cannot do ourselves.
It is not self-mortifying, but
it is dying with Christ. There is nothing can
do it but the Cross of Christ and the Spirit of
God. The church is full of half dead people
who have been trying, like poor Nero, to slay
themselves for years, and have not had the
courage to strike the fatal blow. Oh, if they
would just put themselves at Jesus' feet, and
let Him do it, there would be accomplishment
and rest. On that cross He has provided for
our death as well as our life, and our part is
just to let His death be applied to our nature
just as it has been to our old sins, and then
leave it with Him, think no more about it, and
count it dead, not recognizing it any longer as
ourselves, but another, refusing to listen or
fear it, to be identified with it, or even try to
cleanse it, but counting it utterly in His hands,
and dead to us forever, and for all our new life
depending on Him at every breath, as a babe
just born depends upon its mother's life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 19.</head>

<p>
<q>He purgeth it that it may bring forth more fruit</q>
(John xv. 2).
</p>

<p>
Recently we passed a garden. The
gardener had just finished his pruning,
and the wounds of the knife and saw
were just beginning to heal, while the
warm April sun was gently nourishing the
stricken plant into fresh life and energy. We
thought as we looked at that plant how cruel
it would be to begin next week and cut it
down. Now, the gardener's business is to
revive and nourish it into life. Its business is
not to die, but to live. So, we thought, it is
with the discipline of the soul. It, too, has its
dying hour; but it must not be always dying:
Rather reckon ourselves to be dead indeed unto
sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ
our Lord. Death is but a moment. Live, then,
ye children of the resurrection, on His glorious
life more and more abundantly, and the fulness
of your life will repel the intrusion of self
and sin, and overcome evil with good, and your
existence will be, not the dreary repression of
your own struggling, but the springing tide of
Christ's spontaneous overcoming and everlasting
life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 20.</head>

<p>
<q>Ye are not your own</q> (I. Cor. vi. 19).
</p>

<p>
What a privilege that we may consecrate
ourselves. What a mercy that
God will take us worthless worms.
What rest and comfort lie hidden
in those words, <q>Not my own.</q> Not responsible
for my salvation, not burdened by my
cares, not obliged to live for my interests, but
altogether His; redeemed, owned, saved, loved,
kept in the strong, unchanging arms of His
everlasting love. Oh, the rest from sin and self
and cankering care which true consecration
brings! To be able to give Him our poor weak
life, with its awful possibilities and its utter
helplessness, and know that He will accept it,
and take a joy and pride in making out of it
the utmost possibilities of blessing, power and
usefulness; to give all, and find in so doing
we have gained all; to be so yielded to Him in
entire self surrender, that He is bound to care
for us as for Himself. We are putting ourselves
in the hands of a loving Father,
more solicitous for our good than we can
be and only wanting us to be fully submitted
to Him that He may be more free to bless
us.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 21.</head>

<p>
<q>We will come unto Him and make our abode
with Him</q> (John xiv. 23).
</p>

<p>
The Bible has always held out two great
promises respecting Christ. First, I
will come to you; and, second, I will
come into you. For four thousand
years the world looked forward to the fulfilment
of the first. The other is the secret which
Paul says has been hid from ages and generations,
but is now made manifest to His saints,
which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. This
is just as great a revelation of God as the incarnation
of Jesus, for it makes you like Christ, as
free from sin as He is. If Christ is in you,
what will be the consequences? Why, He
will put you aside entirely. The I in you will
go. You will say, <q>Not I, but Christ.</q> Christ
undertakes your battles for you. Christ becomes
purity and grace and strength in you.
You do not try to attain unto these things, but
you know you have obtained them in Him. It
is glorious rest with the Master. Jesus does
not say, <q>Now we must bring forth fruit, we
must pray much, we must do this or that.</q>
There is no constraint about it, except that we
must abide in Him. That is the center of all
joy and help.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 22.</head>

<p>
<q>Fight the good fight of faith</q> (I. Tim. vi. 12).
</p>

<p>
Oh, beloved, how must God feel about
us after He has given us His heart's
blood, put so many advantages in our
way, expended upon us so much grace
and care, if we should disappoint Him. It
makes the spirit cry, <q>Who is sufficient for
these things?</q> Evermore I can see before me
the time when you and I shall stand on yonder
shore and look back upon the years that have
been, these few short years of time. Oh, may
we cast ourselves at Jesus' feet and say: <q>Many
a time have we faltered; many a hard fight
has come, but Thou hast kept me and held me,
thanks to God, who has given me the victory
through the Lord Jesus Christ.</q> From the
battlefields of the Peninsula, a little band of
veterans came forth, and they gave each a medal
with the names of all their battles on one
side, and on the other side this little sentence,
<q>I was there.</q> Oh, when that hour shall come,
may it be a glad, glad thought to look
back over the trials and sacrifices of these
days and remember, <q>I was there, and by the
help of God and the grace of Jesus, I am
here.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 23.</head>

<p>
<q>The fulness of the blessing of the Gospel of Christ</q>
(Rom. xv. 29).
</p>

<p>
Many Christians fail to see these
blessings as they are centered in Him.
They want to get the blessing of salvation,
but that is not the Christ. They
want to get the blessing of His grace to help,
but that is not Him. They want to get answered
prayer from Him to work for Him.
You might have all that and not have the
blessing of Christ Himself. A great many
people are attached rather to the system of
doctrine. They say, <q>Yes, I have got the truth;
I am orthodox.</q> That is not the Christ. It
may be the cold statue in the fountain with the
water passing from the cold hands and lips, but
no life there. A great many other people want
to get the blessing of joy, but it is not the blessing
of Christ personally. A great many people
are more attached to their church and pastor,
or to dear Christians friends, but that is not the
Christ. The blessing that will alone fill your
heart when all else fails is the loving heart of
Jesus united to you, the fountain of all your
blessings and the unfailing one when they all
wither and are exhausted&mdash;Jesus Christ Himself.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 24.</head>

<p>
<q>Where is the way where light dwelleth</q> (Job
xxxviii. 19).
</p>

<p>
Jewels, in themselves, are valueless,
unless they are brought in contact with
light. If they are put in certain positions
they will reflect the beauty of the
sun. There is no beauty in them otherwise.
The diamond that is back in its dark gallery or
down in the deep mine, displays no beauty
whatever. What is it but a piece of charcoal,
a bit of common carbon, unless it becomes a
medium for reflecting light? And so it is also
with the other precious gems. Their varied
tints are nothing without light. If they are
many-sided, they reflect more light, and display
more beauty. If you put paste beside a diamond
there is no brilliancy in it. In its crude
state it does not reflect light at all. So we are
in a crude state and are of no use at all until
God comes and shines upon us. The light that
is in a diamond is not its own possession; it is
the beauty of the sun. What beauty is there
in the child of God? Only the beauty of
Jesus. We are His peculiar people, chosen
to show forth His excellencies who hath
called us out of darkness into His marvelous
light. Let its reflect to-day His light and
love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 25.</head>

<p>
<q>That I may know Him</q> (Phil. iii. 10).
</p>

<p>
Better to know Jesus Himself than
to know the truth about Him for the
deep things of God as they are revealed
by the Holy Ghost. It was
Paul's great desire, <q>That I may know Him,</q>
not about Him, not the mysteries of the wonderful
world, of the deeper and higher teachings
of God, but to enter into the Holy of
Holies, where Christ is, where the Shekinah is
shining and making the place glorious with
the holiness of God, and then to enter into the
secret of the Lord Himself. It was what Jacob
strove for at Peniel, when he pleaded with
God, <q>Tell me Thy name.</q> He has told us
His name, giving us <q>the light of the knowledge
of the glory of God in the face of Jesus
Christ.</q> That is the secret. It is the Lord
Himself, and nothing else; it is acquaintance
with God; it is knowing Jesus Christ as we
know no one else; it is being able to say, not
only <q>I believe Him,</q> but <q>I know Him</q>; not
about Him, but I know Him. That is the secret
above all others that God wants us to
have; it is His provision for glory and power,
and it is given freely to the single-hearted
seeker.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 26.</head>

<p>
<q>Be careful for nothing; but in everything by
prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your
requests be made known unto God</q> (Phil. iv. 6).
</p>

<p>
Commit means to hand over, to trust
wholly to another. So, if we give our
trials to Him, He will carry them. If
we walk in righteousness He will
carry us through. <q>Humble yourselves, therefore,
under the mighty hand of God that He
may exalt you in due time.</q> There are two
hands there&mdash;God's hand pressing us down,
humbling us, and then God's hand lifting us
up. Cast all your care on Him, then His hand
will lift you up, exalt you in due time. There
are two cares in this verse&mdash;your care and His
care. They are different in the original. One
means anxious care, the other means Almighty
care. Cast your anxious care on Him and take
His Almighty care instead. Make no account
of trouble any more, but believe He is able to
sustain you through it. The government is on
His shoulder. Believe that, if you trust and
obey Him, and meet His will, He will look after
your interests. Simply exchange burdens.
Take His yoke upon you, and let Him care for
you.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 27.</head>

<p>
<q>The government shall be upon His shoulder</q>
(Isa. ix. 6).
</p>

<p>
You cannot make the heart restful by
stopping its beating. Belladonna will
do that, but that is not rest. Let the
breath of life come&mdash;God's life and
strength&mdash;and there will be sweet rest. Home
ties and family affection will not bring it. Deliverance
from trouble will not bring it. Many
a tried heart has said: <q>If this great trouble
was only gone, I should have rest.</q> But as
soon as one goes another comes. The poor,
wounded deer on the mountain side, thinks if
he could only bathe in the old mountain stream
he would have rest. But the arrow is in its
flesh and there is no rest for it till the wound
is healed. It is as sore in the mountain lake
as on the plain. We shall never have God's
rest and peace in the heart till we have given
everything up to Christ&mdash;even our work&mdash;and
believe He has taken it all, and we have only
to keep still and trust. It is necessary to walk
in holy obedience and let Him have the government
on His shoulder. Paul said this: <q>This
one thing I do.</q> There is one narrow path for
us all&mdash;Christ's will and work for us.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 28.</head>

<p>
<q>He humbled Himself</q> (Phil. ii. 8).
</p>

<p>
One of the hardest things for a lofty
and superior nature is to be under authority,
to renounce his own will, and
to take a place of subjection. But
Christ took upon Him the form of a servant,
gave up His independence, His right to please
Himself, His liberty of choice, and after having
from eternal ages known only to command,
gave Himself up only to obey. I have seen occasionally
the man who was once a wealthy
employer a clerk in the same store. It was not
an easy or graceful position, I assure you. But
Jesus was such a perfect servant that His
Father said: <q>Behold, My Servant in whom
My soul delighteth.</q> All His life His watchword
was, <q>The Son of Man came to minister.</q>
<q>I am among you as He that doth serve.</q> <q>I
can do nothing of Myself.</q> <q>Not My will, but
Thine, be done.</q> Have you, beloved, learned
the servant's place?
</p>

<p>
And once more, <q>He became obedient unto
death, even the death of the cross.</q> His life
was all a dying, and at last He gave all up
to death, and also shame, the death of crucifixion.
This last was the consummation of
His love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 29.</head>

<p>
<q>The body is for the Lord and the Lord for the
body</q> (I. Cor. vi. 13).
</p>

<p>
Now, just as it was Christ Himself who
justified us, and Christ Himself who
was made unto us sanctification, so it
is only by personal union with Him
that we can receive this physical life and redemption.
It is, indeed, not a touch of power
upon our body which restores and then leaves
it to the mere resources of natural strength and
life for the future; but it is the vital and actual
union of our mortal body with the risen body
of our Lord Jesus Christ, so that His own very
life comes into our frame and He is Himself
made unto us strength, health and full physical
redemption.
</p>

<p>
He is alive forevermore and condescends to
live in these houses of clay. They who thus receive
Him may know Him as none ever can
who exclude Him from the bodies which He
has made for Himself. This is one of the deep
and precious mysteries of the Gospel. <q>The
body is for the Lord, and the Lord for the
body.</q> <q>Know ye not that your body is the
temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, and
ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a
price; therefore, glorify God in your body,
which is God's.</q> (R. V.)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 30.</head>

<p>
<q>I will put My Spirit within you</q> (Ez. xxxvi. 27).
</p>

<p>
<q>I will put My Spirit within you, and I
will cause you to walk in My statutes,
and ye shall keep My judgments.</q> <q>I
will put My fear in your hearts, and ye
shall not turn away from Me.</q> Oh, friend,
would not that be blessed, would not that be
such a rest for you, all worn out with this strife
in your own strength? Do you not want a
strong man to conquer the strong man of self
and sin? Do you not want a leader? Do you
not want God Himself to be with you, to be
your occupant? Do you not want rest? Are
you not conscious of this need? Oh, this sense
of being beaten back, longing, wanting, but
not accomplishing. That is what He comes to
do; <q>Ye shall receive power after that the
Holy Ghost has come upon you.</q> Better than
that, <q>Ye shall receive the power of the Holy
Ghost coming upon you.</q> That is the true version,
and really it is immensely different from
the other. You shall not receive power yourself,
so that people shall say: <q>How much
power that man has. You shall not have any
power whatever, but you shall receive the
power of the Holy Ghost coming upon you,
He having the power, that is all.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May 31.</head>

<p>
<q>Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this
little child</q> (Matt. xviii. 4).
</p>

<p>
You will never get a humble heart until
it is born from above, from the heart
of Christ. For man has lost his own
humanity and alas, too often has a
demon heart. God wants us, as Christians, to
be simple, human, approachable and childlike.
The Christians that we know and love best, and
that are nearest to the Lord, are the most simple.
Whenever we grow stilted we are only fit
for a picture gallery, and we are only good on
a pedestal; but, if we are going to live among
men and love and save them, we must be approachable
and human. All stiffness is but
another form of self-consciousness. Ask Christ
for a human heart, for a smile that will be as
natural as your little child's in your presence.
Oh, how much Christ did by little touches!
He never would have got at the woman of
Samaria if He had come to her as the prophet.
He sat down, a tired man, and said:
<q>Give me a drink of water.</q> And so, all
through His life, it was His simple humanness
and love that led Him to others,
and led them to Him and to His great salvation.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 1.</head>

<p>
<q>That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled
in us</q> (Rom. viii. 4).
</p>

<p>
Beloved friends, do you know the
mistake some of you are making?
Some of you say: <q>It is not possible
for me to be good; no man ever was
perfect, and it is no use for me to try.</q> That is
the mistake many of you are making. I agree
with the first sentence, <q>No man ever was perfect</q>;
but I don't agree with the second, <q>There
is no use trying.</q> There is a divine righteousness
that we may have. I don't mean merely
that which pardons your sins&mdash;I believe that,
too&mdash;but I mean far more; I mean that which
comes into your soul and unites itself with the
fibers of your being; I mean Christ; your life,
your purity, making you feel as Christ feels;
think as Christ thinks, love as Christ loves,
hate as Christ hates, and be <q>partakers of the
divine nature.</q> That is God's righteousness;
<q>that the righteousness of the law might be fulfiled
in us,</q> not by us, but in us; not our hands
and feet merely, but our very instincts, our
very desires, our very nature springing up in
harmony with His own. Have you got Him,
dear friends? He will come and fulfil all right
things in you if to-day you will open your
heart.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 2.</head>

<p>
<q>As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the
Lord so walk ye in Him</q> (Col. ii. 6).
</p>

<p>
Here is the very core of spiritual life. It
is not a subjective state so much as a
life in the heart. Christ for us is the
ground of our salvation and the source
of our justification; Christ in us of our sanctification.
When this becomes real, <q>Ye are
dead</q>; your own condition, states and resources
are no longer counted upon any more
than a dead man's, but <q>your life is hid with
Christ in God.</q> It is not even always manifest
to you. It is hid and so wrapped up and enfolded
in Him that only as you abide in Him
does it appear and abide. Nay, <q>Christ who is
your life,</q> must Himself ever maintain it, and
be made unto you of God all you need. Therefore,
Christian life is not to come to Christ to
save you, and then go on and work out your
sanctification yourself, but <q>as ye have received
Christ Jesus, the Lord, so to walk in Him,</q>
just as dependent and as simply trusting as
for your pardon and salvation.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Ah friends, how much it would ease our tasks</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>For the day that's just begun,</l>
<l>To live our life a step at a time</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And our moments one by one.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 3.</head>

<p>
<q>Ye shall receive the power of the Holy Ghost</q>
(Acts i. 8).
</p>

<p>
There is power for us if we have the
Holy Ghost. God wants us to speak
to men so that they will feel it, so that
they will never forget it. God means
every Christian to be effective, to count in the
actual records and results of Christian work.
Dear friends, God sent you here to be a power
yourself. There is not one of you but is an
essential wheel of the machinery, and can accomplish
all that God calls you to. I solemnly
believe that there is not a thing that God expects
of man but that God will give the man
power to do. There is not a claim God makes
on you or me but God will stand up to, and
will give what He commands. I believe when
Christ Jesus lived and died and sent down the
Holy Ghost, He sent resources for all our need,
and that there is no place for failure in Christian
life if we will take God's resources. Jesus,
the ascended One, and the Holy Ghost, the indwelling
energy, life and efficiency of God,
are sufficient for all possible emergencies. Do
you believe this? If you believe it, let Him
into your heart, without reserve and allow Him
to control and work through you to-day by His
power.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Looking unto Jesus</q> (Heb. xii. 2).
</p>

<p>
There must be a constant looking unto
Jesus, or, as the German Bible gives it,
an off-looking upon Jesus; that is,
looking off from the evil, refusing to
see it, not letting the mind dwell upon it for a
second. We should have mental eyelashes as
well as physical ones, which can be used like
shields, and let no evil thing in; or, like a
stockade camp in the woods, which repels the
first assault of the enemy. This is the use of
the fringes to our eyes, and so it should be with
the soul. Many do not seem to know that they
have spiritual eyes. They go through the
world as if somebody had cut off their eyelashes,
and they stare away on the good and
evil alike. The devil comes along with his
evil pictures and bids them look. We cannot
look upon evil without being defiled. Sometimes,
in going down the street, the sight of
some of the pictures on the way will cast their
filth upon the soul so that we shall feel the need
of being bathed in Jesus' blood for hours for
cleansing. There has been no consent unto sin,
but the sight of it has defiled. There is no
help for it but in the resolute, steady, inner
view of Christ.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 5.</head>

<p>
<q>My heart is fixed, O God</q> (Ps. lvii. 7).
</p>

<p>
We do not always feel joyful, but we
are always to count it joy. This
word <emph>reckon</emph> is one of the keywords
of Scripture. It is the same word
used about our being dead. We are painfully
conscious of something which would gladly
return to life. But we are to treat ourselves
as dead, and neither fear nor obey the old nature.
So we are to reckon the thing that comes
a blessing; we are determined to rejoice, to
say, <q>My heart is fixed, Lord; I will sing and
give praises.</q> This rejoicing by faith will
soon become a habit, and will ever bring
speedily the spirit of gladness and the spontaneous
overflow of praise.
</p>

<p>
Then, although the fig tree may wither and
no fruit appear in the vines, the labor of the
olive fail, and the field yield no increase, the
herd be cut off from the stall, and the cattle
from the field, yet will we rejoice in the Lord
and joy in the God of our salvation.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Though the everlasting mountains</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And the earth itself remove,</l>
<l>Naught can change His loving kindness</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Or His everlasting love.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 6.</head>

<p>
<q>He emptied Himself</q> (Phil. ii. 8, R. V.).
</p>

<p>
The first step to the righteousness of
the kingdom is <q>poor in spirit.</q> Then
the next is a little deeper, <q>they that
mourn.</q> Because now you must get
plastic, you must get broken, you must get like
the metal in the fire, which the Master can
mould; and so, it is not enough to see your unrighteousness,
but deeply to feel it, deeply to
regret it, deeply to mourn over it, to own it
not a little thing that sin has come into your
life. And so God leads a soul unto His righteousness.
He usually leads it through some
testings and trials. This generally comes after
conversion. I do not think it necessary for a
soul to have deep and great suffering before it
is saved. I think He will put it into the fire
when He knows it is saved; when it realizes
it is accepted; when it is not afraid of the discipline;
when it is not the hand of wrath, but the
hand of love. Oh, then, God, takes you down
and makes you poor in spirit, and makes you
mourn until you get to the third step, which is
to be meek, broken, yielded, submissive, willing,
surrendered, and laid low at His feet, crying:
<q>What wilt Thou have me to do?</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 7.</head>

<p>
<q>When ye go; ye shall not go empty</q> (Ex. iii. 21).
</p>

<p>
When we are really emptied He
would have us filled with Himself
and the Holy Spirit. It is very precious
to be conscious of nothing
good in ourselves; but, oh, are we also conscious
of His great goodness? We may be
ready to admit our own disability, but are we
as ready to admit His ability? There are many
Christians who can say, <q>We are not sufficient
of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves</q>;
but the number I fear is very small
who can say, <q>Our sufficiency is of God.</q>
</p>

<p>
Are you sure that He is able to provide every
want in you, or do you feel that you must supply
it yourself? Are you believing that God
does now supply every lack in your heart and
your life, so that all stumbling is taken
away, and you are endowed with power for His
service, as Elisha took the empty vessels and
filled them before they were set aside to be
used? Our Saviour, at Cana, ordered the
water-pots to be filled to the brim. Then the
water was made into wine, but not until the
vessels were full. God wants His children to
have always a full heart.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 8.</head>

<p>
<q>Bread corn is bruised</q> (Isa. xxviii. 28).
</p>

<p>
The farmer does not gather timothy and
blue grass, and break it with a heavy
machine. But he takes great pains
with the wheat. So God takes great
pains with those who are to be of much use to
Him. There is a nature in them that needs
this discipline. Don't wonder if the bread
corn is treated with the wise, discriminating
care that will fit it for food. He knows the
way He is taking, and there is infinite tenderness
in the oversight He gives. He is watching
the furnace you are in lest the heat should
be too intense. He wants it great enough to
purify, and then it is withdrawn. He knoweth
our frame. He will not let any temptation
take us but such as is common to man, and He
will with the temptation also make a way to
escape, that we may be able to bear it. Do you
believe in this disciplining love of the Husbandman,
and are you trusting Him with the
leading and government of your life? Oh, that
you would cease to envy or be disturbed by the
people around you! Some day you will be
glad for the training and blessing they have
brought you.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 9.</head>

<p>
<q>Ye are the light of the world</q> (Matt. v. 14).
</p>

<p>
We are called the lights of the world,
light-bearers, reflectors, candle-sticks,
lamps. We are to be kindled
ourselves, and then we will burn and
give light to others. We are the only light the
world has. The Lord might come down Himself
and give light to the world, but He has
chosen differently. He wants to send it
through us, and if we don't give it the world
will not have it. We should be giving light all
the time to our neighbors. God does not put
a meteor in the sky to tell us when to shine.
We are to be giving light all the time wherever
we are, at home, or in the social circle, or in
our place in the church. We should feel always
we may never have another opportunity
for it, and so we should always be burning and
shining for Him. Let our lamps be trimmed
and burning and full of the oil of the Spirit.
Above all, let us be a steady light to the lost
ones.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Let me dwell in Timnath Serah,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Where the sun forever shines,</l>
<l>Where the night and darkness come not,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And the day no more declines.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 10.</head>

<p>
<q>Your heavenly Father knoweth ye have need</q>
(Matt. vi. 32).
</p>

<p>
Christ makes no less of our trust for
temporal things than He does for
spiritual things. He places a good
deal of emphasis upon it. Why? Simply
because it is harder to trust God for them.
In spiritual matters we can fool ourselves, and
think that we are trusting when we are not;
but we cannot do so about rent and food, and
the needs of our body. They must come or
our faith fails. It is easy to say that we trust
Him in things that are a long way off, but there
can be no trifling about it in things where the
faith must bring practical answers. It is easy
to have faith for our needs, and to trust Him
when the sun is shining. But let some things
arise which irritate and rasp and fret us, and
we soon find whether we have real trust or not.
And so the things of everyday life are tests of
our real faith in God, and He often puts us
where we have to trust for tangible matters&mdash;for
money and rent, and food and clothes. If
you are not trusting here wholly, when you
are placed in such tests you will break down.
Are you trusting God for everything through
the six ordinary days of the week?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 11.</head>

<p>
<q>Thou hast the dew of thy youth</q> (Ps. cx. 3).
</p>

<p>
Oh, that you might get such a view of
Him as would make it impossible for
little things ever to fret you again!
The petty cares and silly trifles that
have troubled you so much ought rather to fill
you with wonder that you can think so much
about them. Oh, if you had the dew of His
youth you should go forth as the morning and
fulfil the promise of a glorious day! What a
difference it has made in life since we have
seen it was possible to do this! How easy it
seems now when the little troubles come, to
draw a little closer to Christ, to drink in a little
more of that fountain of life, to get a little
nearer to that loving heart, and to draw in
great draughts of refreshing and strength from
it. How clear it makes the brain for work!
Coming to Him thus, heavy and dull and tired,
how rested you become and able to spring
forth ready for work. How inspiring to think
that our living Head never grows weary. He
is as fresh as He ever was; He is a glorious
conqueror; He is ever the victorious
Christ. Let Him take you to-day, and He will
cause you to see in Him the invincible
Leader!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 12.</head>

<p>
<q>We would see Jesus</q> (John xii. 21).
</p>

<p>
Glory to Him for all the things laid
up for us in the days to come. Glory
to Him for all the visions of service in
the future; the opportunities of doing
good that are far away as well as close at
hand. Our Saviour was able to despise the
cross for the joy that was before Him. Let us
look up to Him, and rise up to Him till we get
on high and are able to look out from the
mount of vision over all the land of far distances.
There shall not a single thing come
to us in all the future in which we may not be
able to see the King in His beauty. Let us be
very sure that we do not see anything else.
Our pupils will become impressed as they look
at this vision, so that they will not be able to
reflect anything else. My little child came to
me once and said: <q>Papa, look at that golden
sign across the street a good while; now look
at that brick wall and tell me what you see.</q>
<q>Why, I see the golden sign on the brick wall.</q>
And he laughed merrily over it. So, if we
look a long time upon Jesus we cannot look at
anything else without seeing a reflection of
Him. Everything which we behold will become
a part of Him.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 13.</head>

<p>
<q>The sweetness of the lips increaseth learning</q>
(Prov. xvi. 21).
</p>

<p>
Life is very largely made up of words.
They are not so emphatic, perhaps, as
deeds. Deeds are more deliberate expressions
of thought. One of the most
remarkable authors of the New Testament has
said, <q>If any man offend not in word, the same
is a perfect man.</q> It is very often a test of
victory in Christian life. Our triumph in this
often depends on what we say, or what we do
not say. It is said by James of the tongue, <q>It
is set on fire of hell.</q> The true Christian,
therefore, is righteous in his ways and upright
in his words. His deeds appeal to men; but in
speech he is looking up, for God is listening.
His words are sent upward and recorded for
the judgment. I believe that this is an actual
fact, and I can almost fancy that the skies
above, which seem so transparent, the beautiful
blue ether over our heads, is like a waxen tablet
with a finely sensitive surface, and receives
an impression of every word we speak, and that
then these tablets are hardened and preserved
for the eternal judgment. So we should speak,
dear friends, with our eyes ever upward, never
forgetting that we shall some day meet the
words that we have spoken.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 14.</head>

<p>
<q>The secret of the Lord is with them that fear
Him</q> (Ps. xxv. 14).
</p>

<p>
There are secrets of Providence which
God's dear children may learn. His
dealing with them often seems, to the
outward eye, dark and terrible. Faith
looks deeper and says, <q>This is God's secret.
You look only on the outside; I can look deeper
and see the hidden meaning.</q> Sometimes diamonds
are done up in rough packages, so that
their value cannot be seen. When the tabernacle
was built in the wilderness there was
nothing rich in its outside appearance. The
costly things were all within, and its outward
covering of rough badger skin gave no hint of
the valuable things which it contained. God
may send you, dear friends, some costly packages.
Do not worry if they are done up in
rough wrappings. You may be sure there are
treasures of love, and kindness and wisdom
hidden within. Do not be so foolish as
to throw away a nugget of gold because
there is some quartz in it. If we take
what He sends, and trust Him for the
goodness in it, even in the dark, we shall
learn the meaning of the secrets of His providence.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 15.</head>

<p>
<q>Grow up into Him in all things</q> (Eph. iv. 15).
</p>

<p>
Harvest is a time of ripeness. Then
the fruit and grain are fully developed,
both in size and weight. Time
has tempered the acid of the green
fruit. It has been mellowed and softened by
the rains and the heat of summer. The sun
has tinted it into rich colors, and at last it is
ready and ripe to fall into the hand. So Christian
life ought to be. There are many things
in life that need to be mellowed and ripened.
Many Christians have orchards full of fruit,
but they are all green and sharp to the taste.
There is a great deal in them that is good, but
it is incomplete, and very sharp and sour. Perhaps
something goes wrong in your domestic
life, and you get flurried and cross and lose
your confidence in God, and then, of course,
your Christian joy. These things produce regret
and all kinds of misery. There are many
things day after day you are sorry for. You
know you are not ripe and mellow and you cannot
become so by trying. You cannot bring
the sweetness in. It must be wrought out from
within.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 16.</head>

<p>
<q>Ye cannot serve God and Mammon</q> (Matt. vi. 24).
</p>

<p>
He does not say ye cannot very well
serve God and mammon, but ye cannot
serve two masters at all. Ye shall be
sure to end by serving one. The man
who thinks he is serving God a little is deceived;
he is not serving God. God will not have
his service. The devil will monopolize him
before he gets through. A divided heart loses
both worlds. Saul tried it. Balaam tried it.
Judas tried it, and they all made a desperate
failure. Mary had but one choice. Paul said:
<q>This one thing I do.</q> <q>For me to live is
Christ.</q> Of such a life God says: <q>Because he
hath set his love upon Me therefore will I
deliver him. I will set him on high because he
hath known My name.</q> God takes a peculiar
pride in showing His love to the heart that
wholly chooses Him. Heaven and earth will
fade away before its trust can be disappointed.
Have we chosen Him only and given Him all
our heart?
</p>

<lg>
<l>Say is it all for Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As you so often sing?</l>
<l>Is He your Royal Master?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Is He your heart's dear King?</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 17.</head>

<p>
<q>The glory of the Lord shall be thy reward</q> (Isa.
lviii. 8).
</p>

<p>
He comes by our side as our helper; nay,
more. He comes to dwell within us; to
be the life in our blood, the fire in our
thought, the faith within us, both in
inception and consummation. Thus He becomes
not only the recompense of the victor,
but the resources of the victory. He is the
Captain and the Overcomer in our lives. If we
have caught any help that has relieved us of a
troubled morning, it has been of Him. He lifts
our eyes up unto Himself and delivers us from
apathy, from discontent and from fears. He is
always the helper in this heavenly competition,
and will be the great reward in all the ages to
come. If our life is hidden with Him we shall
have to go through the same trials that He
went through, but we shall not find them too
hard. If once we take Him fully as the
strength of our life, and our all in all, we shall
be able to lay aside all the hindering things
that press upon us day by day.
</p>

<lg>
<l>I have overcome, overcome,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Overcome for thee,</l>
<l>Thou shalt overcome, overcome,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Overcome thro' Me.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 18.</head>

<p>
<q>I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come
down</q> (Neh. vi. 3).
</p>

<p>
When work is pressing there are many
little things that will come and seem
to need attention. Then it is a very
blessed thing to be quiet and still,
and work on, and trust the little things with
God. He answers such trust in a wonderful
way. If the soul has no time to fret and worry
and harbor care, it has learned the secret of
faith in God. A desperate desire to get some
difficulty right takes the eye off of God and
His glory. Some dear ones have been so anxious
to get well, and have spent so much time
in trying to claim it, that they have lost their
spiritual blessing. God sometimes has to teach
such souls that there must be a willingness to
be sick before they are so thoroughly yielded
as to receive His fullest blessing.
</p>

<p>
The enemy often keeps at this work. Sanballat
came four times to Nehemiah and received
always the same answer. It is best to
stick to a good answer. How many fears we
have stopped to fight which have proved to be
nothing at last. Nehemiah recognized that
fear was sin, and did not dare to yield to it.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 19.</head>

<p>
<q>Who hath first given to Him, and it shall be
recompensed unto him again</q> (Rom. xi. 35).
</p>

<p>
The Christian women of the world have
it in their power, by a very little sacrifice,
to add millions to the treasury of
the Lord. Beloved sisters, have you
found the joy of sacrifice for Jesus? Have you
given up something that you might give it to
Him? Are you giving your substance to Jesus?
He will take it, and He will give you a
thousandfold more. I should rather be connected
with a work founded on great sacrifice
than on enormous endowments. The reason
God loved the place where His ancient temple
rose in majesty was because there Abraham
offered his son and David his treasure. The
reason redemption is so dear to the Father and
the heavenly world is because its foundation-stone
is the Cross of Calvary. And the Christian
life that is dearest to the heart of God, and
will rise to the highest glory and usefulness, is
the one whose foundation principle is sacrifice
and self-renunciation. This is why the Master
teaches us to give, because giving means loving,
and love is but another name for life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 20.</head>

<p>
<q>Let every man abide in the same calling wherein
he was called</q> (I. Cor. vii. 20).
</p>

<p>
O ye who complain about your calling
or fret about the changes and trials of
life, how do you know but that these
very changes are the divine methods
by which God's purposes of blessing and usefulness
concerning you be fulfilled? Had
Aquila not been compelled to leave Rome and
break up his home and business, he would
probably have never met with Paul, and been
called to the knowledge and service of Christ
through this providential meeting. Had he not
been a working man, and pursuing his ordinary
avocation he would not have been brought into
contact with the apostle. It was in the line of
their calling, their common duties, and the
providential changes of their life that God
called them. And so He meets us. Do not
try hard to run away from it, but, as the
apostle has so finely put it, <q>Let every
man abide in the same calling wherein he is
called, let him therein abide with God.</q>
Make the most of your incidental opportunities.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 21.</head>

<p>
<q>God hath set some in the church ... helps</q> (I.
Cor. xii. 28).
</p>

<p>
In the apostle's lists of officers in the
church the <q>helps</q> are mentioned before
the <q>governments.</q> By the ministry
of prayer, by the ministry of giving,
by the ministry of encouragement, by the shining
face and mute pressure of the hand, and a
little word of cheer, and by the countless ways
in which we can help, or at least can keep from
hindering, we can all find still the footprints of
Aquila and Priscilla, if we want to follow them.
It is a great grace to be able to rejoice in another's
work and pour our lives, like affluent
rivers, into great streams. But God knows
whence every drop has come, and in the greater
day of recompense many of the helps shall
have the chief reward. Beloved, are you helping?
Are you helping your pastor, your brother,
your husband, your mother, your fellow-worker,
and when the harvest comes shall he
that soweth and he that reapeth rejoice together?
</p>

<lg>
<l>You can help by holy prayer,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Helpful love and joyful song,</l>
<l>O, the burdens you may bear,</l>
<l>O, the sorrows you may share,</l>
<l>O, the crowns you yet may wear,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>If you help along.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 22.</head>

<p>
<q>This is that bread which came down from heaven</q>
(John vi. 58).
</p>

<p>
We had the sentence of death in ourselves
that we should not trust in
ourselves, but in God which raiseth
the dead; who delivereth us from
so great a death, who doth deliver; in whom
we trust that He will yet deliver us. This was
the supernatural secret of Paul's life; he drew
continually in his body from the strength of
Christ, his Risen Head. The body which rose
from Joseph's tomb was to him a physical reality
and the inexhaustible fountain of his vital
forces. More than any other he has imparted
to us the secret of His strength; <q>We are members
of His body, of His flesh and of His
bones</q>; <q>The Lord is for the body and the
body is for the Lord.</q> Marvelous truth! Divine
Elixir of Life and Fountain of Perpetual
Youth! Earnest of the Resurrection! Fulfilment
of the ancient psalms and songs of
faith! <q>The Lord is the strength of my life, of
whom shall I be afraid? My flesh and my heart
faint and fail, but God is the strength of my
heart and my portion forever.</q> Beloved, have
we learned this secret, and are we living the
life of the Incarnate One in our flesh?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 23.</head>

<p>
<q>Now we are the sons of God, and it doth not yet
appear what we shall be</q> (I. John iii. 2).
</p>

<p>
We are the sons of God. We are not
merely called and even legally declared,
but actually are sons of God
by receiving the life and nature of
God; and so we are the very brethren of our
Lord; not only in His human nature, but still
more in His divine relationship. <q>Therefore,
He is not ashamed to call us brethren.</q> He
gives us that which entitles us to that right,
and makes us worthy of it. He does not introduce
us into a position for which we are uneducated
and unfitted, but He gives us a nature
worthy of our glorious standing; and as He
shall look upon us in our complete and glorious
exaltation reflecting His own likeness and shining
in His Father's glory, He shall have no
cause to be ashamed of us. Even now He is
pleased to acknowledge us before the universe
and call us brethren in the sight of all earth
and heaven. Oh, how this dignifies the humblest
saint of God! How little we need mind
the misunderstanding of the world if He <q>is not
ashamed to call us brethren.</q>
</p>

<p>
So let us go out to-day to represent His royal
family.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 24.</head>

<p>
<q>I will clothe thee with change of raiment</q> (Zech.
iii. 4).
</p>

<p>
For Paul every exercise of the Christian
life was simply the grace of Jesus
Christ imparted to him and lived out
by him, so that holiness was to put on
the Lord Jesus and all the robes of His perfect
righteousness which he loves to describe so
often in his beautiful epistles. <q>Put on therefore,
as the elect of God, holy and beloved,</q>
he says to the Colossians, <q>bowels of mercies,
kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long
suffering</q>; and, <q>above all these things, put on
love which is the bond of perfectness.</q> None
of these things are regarded as intrinsic qualities
in us, but as imparted graces from the
hand of Jesus. And even in the later years of
his life, and after the mature experience of a
quarter of a century we find him exclaiming,
<q>I count all things but loss for the excellency
of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord;
for whom I have suffered the loss of all things,
and count them but refuse, that I might win
Christ and be found in Him.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lord, enable us to-day to go out, clothed in
Thy robes of perfect rightness and with our
hearts in adjustment with Thy perfect love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 25.</head>

<p>
<q>Who leadeth us in triumph</q> (II. Cor. ii. 14).
</p>

<p>
Every victor must first be a self-conqueror.
But the method of Joshua's
victory was the uplifted arm of Moses
on the Mount. As he held up his
hands Joshua prevailed, as he lowered them
Amalek prevailed. It was to be a battle of
faith and not of human strength, and the banner
that was to wave over the discomfited foe,
<q>Jehovah-nissi.</q> This, too, is the secret of our
spiritual triumph. <q>If we are led of the Spirit
we shall not fulfil the lusts of the flesh.</q> <q>Sin
shall not have dominion over you, for ye are
not under the law but under grace.</q>
</p>

<p>
Have we thus begun the battle and in the
strength of Christ planted our feet on our own
necks, and thus victorious over the enemy in
the citadel of the heart been set at liberty for
the battle of the Lord and the service of others?
It was the lack of this that hindered the life
of Saul and it has wrecked many a promising
career. One enemy in the heart is stronger
than ten thousand in the field. May the Lord
lead us all into Joshua's first triumph, and show
us the secret of self-crucifixion through the
greater Joshua, who alone can lead us on to
holiness and victory!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 26.</head>

<p>
<q>When He saw the multitudes He was moved</q>
(Matt. ix. 36).
</p>

<p>
He is able to be <q>touched with the feeling
of our infirmities.</q> The word
<q>touched</q> expresses a great deal. It
means that our troubles are His troubles,
and that in all our afflictions He is afflicted.
It is not a sympathy of sentiment, but a
sympathy of suffering.
</p>

<p>
There is much help in this for the tired
heart. It is the foundation of His Priesthood,
and God meant that it should be to us a source
of unceasing consolation. Let us realize, more
fully, our oneness with our Great High Priest,
and cast all our burdens on His great heart of
love. If we know what it is to ache in every
nerve with the responsive pain of our suffering
child, we can form some idea of how our sorrows
touch His heart, and thrill His exalted
frame. As the mother feels her babe's pain,
as the heart of friendship echoes every cry from
another's woe, so in heaven, our exalted Saviour,
even amid the raptures of that happy
world, is suffering in His Spirit and even in
His flesh with all His children bear. <q>Seeing
then we have such a great high Priest, let us
come boldly to the throne of grace,</q> and let us
come to our great High Priest.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 27.</head>

<p>
<q>Be filled with the Spirit</q> (Eph. v. 18).
</p>

<p>
Some of the effects of being filled with
the Spirit are:
</p>

<p>
1. Holiness of heart and life. This
is not the perfection of the human
nature, but the holiness of the divine nature
dwelling within.
</p>

<p>
2. Fulness of joy so that the heart is constantly
radiant. This does not depend on circumstances,
but fills the spirit with holy laughter
in the midst of the most trying surroundings.
</p>

<p>
3. Fulness of wisdom, light and knowledge,
causing us to see things as He sees them.
</p>

<p>
4. An elevation, improvement and quickening
of the mind by an ability to receive the fulfilment
of the promise, <q>We have the mind of
Christ.</q>
</p>

<p>
5. An equal quickening of the physical life.
The body was made for the Holy Ghost, as well
as the mind and soul.
</p>

<p>
6. An ability to pray the prayer of the Holy
Ghost. If He is in us there will be a strange
accordance with God's working in the world
around us. There is a divine harmony between
the Spirit and Providence.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 28.</head>

<p>
<q>Leaning upon her beloved</q> (Songs of Solomon
viii. 5).
</p>

<p>
Shall you make the claim most practical
and real and lean like John your
full weight on the Lord's breast? That
is the way He would have us prove
our love. <q>If you love me lean hard,</q> said
a heathen woman to her missionary, as she
was timidly leaning her tired body upon her
stalwart breast. She felt slighted by the timorous
reserve, and asked the confidence that
would lay all its weight upon the one she
trusted. And He says to us, <q>Casting all your
care upon Him for He careth for you.</q> He
would have us prove our love by a perfect trust
that makes no reserve. He is able to carry all
our care, to manage all our interests, to satisfy
all our needs. Let us go forth leaning on His
breast and feeding on His life. For John not
only leaned but also fed. It was at supper that
he leaned. This is the secret of feeding on
Him, to rest upon His bosom. This is the need
of the fevered heart of man. Let us cry to
Him, <q>Tell me whom my soul loveth, where
thou feedest, where thou makest thy flock to
rest at noon.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 29.</head>

<p>
<q>He dwelleth with you and shall be in you</q> (John
xiv. 17).
</p>

<p>
Do not fail to mark these two stages in
Christian life. The one is the Spirit's
work in us, the other is the Spirit's
personal coming to abide within us.
All true Christians know the first, but few, it is
to be feared, understand and receive the second.
There is a great difference between my
building a house and my going to reside in that
house and make it my home. And there is a
great difference between the Holy Spirit's work
in regenerating a soul&mdash;the building of a house,
and His coming to reside, abide and control in
our innermost spirit and our whole life and
being.
</p>

<p>
Have we received Him Himself not as our
Guest, but as the Owner, Proprietor and Keeper
of the temple He has built to be <q>an habitation
of God through the Spirit</q>?
</p>

<lg>
<l>This is my wonderful story,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Christ to my heart has come,</l>
<l>Jesus the King of glory,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Finds in my heart a home.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>I am so glad I received Him,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Jesus, my heart's dear King,</l>
<l>I, who so often have grieved Him,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>All to His feet would bring.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June 30.</head>

<p>
<q>Therefore, choose</q> (Deut. xxx. 19).
</p>

<p>
Men are choosing every day the spiritual
or earthly. And as we choose
we are taking our place unconsciously
with the friends of Christ, or the
world. It is not merely what ye say, it is what
we prefer.
</p>

<p>
When Solomon made his great choice at
Gibeon, God said to him, <q>Because this was in
thine heart to ask wisdom, therefore will I give
it unto thee, and all else besides that thou didst
not choose.</q> It was not merely that he said
it because it was right to say, and would please
God if he said it. But it was the thing his heart
preferred, and God saw it in his heart and gave
it to him with all besides that he had not chosen.
What are we choosing, beloved? It is our
choice that settles our destiny. It is not how
we feel, but how we purpose. Have we chosen
the good part? Have we said, <q>Whatever
else I am or have, let me be God's child, let
me have His favor and blessing, let me please
Him?</q> Or have we said, <q>I must have this
thing, and then I will see about religion.</q> Alas,
God has seen what was in thine heart, and perhaps
He has already said, <q>They have their reward.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 1.</head>

<p>
<q>After that ye have suffered awhile</q> (I. Peter v. 10).
</p>

<p>
Beloved, are we learning love in the
school of suffering? Are our hearts
being mellowed and deepened by the
summer heat of trial until the fruit of
the Spirit, <q>which is love, joy, peace, long-suffering,
gentleness, meekness, temperance,
faith, is ripening for the harvest of His coming,
and our sufferings are easily borne for His
sake</q>? Oh, this is the school of love, and makes
Him unutterably more dear to our hearts and
us to His. And thus only can we ever learn with
Him the heavenly charity which <q>suffers long,
and is kind.</q>
</p>

<p>
We see the very first and the very last feature
of the face of love, as delineated in St.
Paul's portrait (I. Cor. xiii.), are marks of pain
and patient suffering, <q>suffers long,</q> <q>endureth
all things.</q> So let us learn thus in the
school of love to suffer and be kind, to endure
all things.
</p>

<p>
Surely it will not be hard to love through
all when it is the heart of Jesus within us which
will love and continue to love to the very end.
</p>

<lg>
<l>I want the love that suffers and is kind,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That envies not nor vaunts its pride or fame,</l>
<l>Is not puffed up, does no discourteous act,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Is not provoked, nor seeks its own to claim.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 2.</head>

<p>
<q>And hath raised us up together</q> (Eph. ii. 6).
</p>

<p>
Ascension is more than resurrection.
Much is said of it in the New Testament.
Christ riseth above all things.
We see Him in the very act of ascending
as we do not in the actual resurrection,
as, with hands and lips engaged in blessing,
He gently parts from their side, so simply,
so unostentatiously, with so little imposing
ceremony as to make heaven so near to our
common life that we can just whisper through.
And we, too, must ascend, even here. <q>If ye
then be risen with Christ, seek those things
that are above.</q> We must learn to live on
the heaven side and look at things from above.
How it overcomes sin, defies Satan, dissolves
perplexities, lifts us above trials, separates us
from the world and conquers the fear of death
to contemplate all things as God sees them, as
Christ beholds them, as we shall one day look
back upon them from His glory, and as if we
were now really <q>Seated with Him,</q> as indeed
we are, <q>in the heavenly places.</q> Let us arise
with His resurrection and in fellowship with
His glorious ascension learn henceforth to live
above.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 3.</head>

<p>
<q>Look from the top</q> (Song of Solomon iv. 8).
</p>

<p>
Yes, our perplexities would become plain
if we kept on a spiritual elevation. How
often when the traveler quite loses his
way he can soon find it again from
some tree top or some hill top where all the
winding paths he has gone spread behind him,
and the whole homeward road opens before.
So, from the heights of prayer and faith, we too
can see the plain path, and know that we are
going home.
</p>

<p>
There is no other way in which we can gain
the victory over the world. We must get
above it. We must see it from the side of our
great reward. Then it looks like earthly objects
after we have gazed upon the sun for a
while. We are blind to them. When the
Italian fruit-seller finds that he is heir to a
ducal palace you cannot tempt him any more
with the paltry profits of his trade or the company
of his old associates. He is above it all.
They who know the hope of their calling and
the riches of the glory of their inheritance can
well despise the world. It is the poor starving
ones who go hungering for the husks of earth.
We are born from above and have a longing to
go home. Let us go forth to-day with our
hearts on the homestretch.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Whosoever abideth in Him sinneth not</q> (I. John
iii. 6).
</p>

<p>
In sanctification what becomes of the old
nature? Many people are somewhat unduly
concerned to know if it can be
killed outright, and seem to desire a sort
of certificate of its death and burial. It is
enough to know that it is without and Christ
is within. It may show itself again, and even
knock at the door and plead for admittance,
but it is forever outside while we abide in Him.
Should we step out of Him and into sin we
might find the old corpse in the ghastly cemetery,
and its foul aroma might yet revive and
embrace us once more. But he that abideth
in Him sinneth not and cannot sin while he so
abides.
</p>

<p>
Therefore let us abide and let us not be anxious
to escape the hold of eternal vigilance and
ceaseless abiding. Our paths are made and the
strength to pursue them; let us walk in them.
God has provided for us a full sanctification.
Is it strange that He should demand it of us,
and require us to be holy, even as He is holy,
seeing He has given us His own holiness. So
let us put on our beautiful garments and prepare
to walk in white with Him.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 5.</head>

<p>
<q>A garden enclosed</q> (Song of Solomon iv. 12).
</p>

<p>
The figure here is a garden enclosed, not
a wilderness. The garden soil is a cultivated
soil, very different from the
roadside or the wilderness. The idea
of a garden is culture. The ground has to be
prepared, to be broken up by ploughing, to be
mellowed by harrowing, all the stones removed,
the roots of all natural growth dug up,
for the good things we are seeking are not natural
growths and will not grow in our soil.
We all start on the old basis and try to improve
the old nature, but that is not God's way. His
way is to get self out of the way entirely, and
let Him create anew out of nothing, so that all
shall be of Him; and we must find Jesus the
Alpha and Omega.
</p>

<p>
The thing you want to learn here is to die.
There can be no real life till self dies, and
don't try to die yourself, but ask God to slay
you, and He will make a thorough work of it.
</p>

<lg>
<l>This the secret nature hideth,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Summer dies and lives again,</l>
<l>Spring from winter's grave ariseth,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Harvest grows from buried grain.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 6.</head>

<p>
<q>I am my beloved's</q> (Song of Solomon vii. 10).
</p>

<p>
If you want power you must compress. It
is the shutting in of the steam that
moves the engine. The amount of powder
on a flat surface that sends a ball to
its destination when shut up in a gun only
makes a flash. If you want to carry the electric
current you must be insulated. Stand a
man on a glass platform and turn a battery on
him and he will be filled with electricity. Let
him step off the glass, and the moment he
touches earth he loses power.
</p>

<p>
We must be inclosed by His everlasting Covenant.
That holds us and keeps us from falling.
He will be a wall of fire round about us.
He comes Himself and envelops us round
about with the old Shekinah glory, and will be
the glory in the midst. He wants us inclosed&mdash;by
a distinct act of consecration dedicated
wholly to Him. Are you inclosed by His
fences, His commandments, His promises, His
covenant? Is your heart really and only for
the Lord?
</p>

<p>
If not, come to Him now and let Him separate
you from all the things that take your
life, and let Him separate you unto Himself,
the Life Giver.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 7.</head>

<p>
<q>And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle</q>
(Ex. xl. 35).
</p>

<p>
In the last chapter of Exodus we read all
the Lord commanded Moses to do, and
that as he fulfilled these commands the
glory of the Lord descended and filled
the tabernacle till there was no room for
Moses, and from that time the pillar of cloud
overshadowed them, their guide, their protection.
And so we have been building as the
Lord Himself commanded, and now the temple
is to be handed over to Him to be possessed
and filled. He will so fill you, if you will let
Him that yourself and everything else will be
taken out of the way, the glory of the Lord will
fill the temple, encompassing, lifting up, guiding,
keeping; and from this time your moon
shall not withdraw its light, nor your sun go
down.
</p>

<p>
Do you want power? You have God for it.
Do you want holiness? You have God for it;
and so of everything. And God is bending
down from His throne to-day to lift you up to
your true place in Him. From this time may
the cloud of His glory so surround and fill us
that we shall be lost sight of forever.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 8.</head>

<p>
<q>Having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect
by the flesh</q> (Gal. iii. 3).
</p>

<p>
Grace literally means that which we
do not have to earn. It has two great
senses always; it comes for nothing
and it comes when we are helpless; it
doesn't merely help the man that helps himself&mdash;that
is not the Gospel; the Gospel is that
God helps the man who can't help himself.
And then there is another thing; God helps the
man to help himself, for everything the man
does comes from God. Grace is given to the
man who is so weak and helpless he cannot
take the first step. That is the meaning of
grace&mdash;a little of the meaning of it; we can
never know the fulness it has. Now, this river
is as free as it is full, but you know some people
have an idea when they get a little farther
on they have got to pay an admission, and reserved
seats are very high, and they shrink
back from the higher blessings of the Gospel;
ordinary Christians scarcely dare to claim
them. If I understand the meaning of this,
God has not put the higher blessings apart for
a separate class who somehow are nearer to
Him. God is no respecter of persons.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 9.</head>

<p>
<q>Cast thy burden on the Lord</q> (Ps. lv. 22).
</p>

<p>
Dear friends, sometimes we bring a
burden to God, and we have such a
groaning over it, and we seem to think
God has a dreadful time, too, but in
reality it does not burden Him at all. God says:
It is a light thing for Me to do this for you.
Your load, though heavy for you, is not heavy
for Him. Christ carries the whole on one
shoulder, not two shoulders. The government
of the world is upon His shoulder. He is not
struggling and groaning with it. His mighty
arm is able to carry all your burdens. There
is power in Christ for our sanctification. He
is able to sanctify you. Yes, yes, the Lord can
sanctify, the Lord can heal, the Lord can do
anything. You must have faith in God. If
you come to this river this morning, it will take
you as your Niagara would take a little boat,
and just bear you down&mdash;to a precipice? Oh,
no, but to the bosom of love and blessing forever.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Oft there comes a wondrous message,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>When my hopes are growing dim,</l>
<l>I can hear it thro' the darkness</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Like some sweet and far-off hymn.</l>
<l>Nothing is too hard for Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>No man can work like Him.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 10.</head>

<p>
<q>That we might know the things that are freely
given to us of God</q> (I. Cor. ii. 12).
</p>

<p>
The highest blessings of the Gospel are
just as free as the lowest; and when
you have served Him ten years you
cannot sit down and say, <q>I have got
an experience now and I count on that.</q> How
often we do that; we say, <q>Now I know I am
saved, I feel it.</q> And so we are building a
different foundation&mdash;we are building on something
in ourselves. Always take grace as
something you don't deserve, something that is
freely bestowed. The long, deep, boundless
river is free; it is as free at the mouth as it is
at the little stream, and free all the way along,
and anybody can come and drink, and anybody
can come and bathe in its boundless waters.
Are you going to believe it?
</p>

<p>
God has given us His Holy Spirit that we
may <q>know the things that are freely given of
us of God.</q> It is a hard thing for the poor
child to look in through the window and see a
fire, and the happy family sitting around the
table when it is starving. What is the good of
knowing that there is warmth, and love, and
light, if it is not free? God has freely given all
the goodness of His grace and love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 11.</head>

<p>
<q>For it is God which worketh in you</q> (Phil. ii. 13).
</p>

<p>
A day with Jesus. Let us seek its plan
and direction from Him. Let us take
His highest thought and will for us in
it. Let us look to Him for our desires,
ideals, expectations in it. Then shall it
bring to us exceeding abundantly above all that
we can ask or think. Let Him be our Guide
and Way. Let us not so much be thinking
even of His plan and way as of Him as the
Personal Guide of every moment, on whom we
constantly depend to lead our every step.
</p>

<p>
Let Him also be the sufficiency and strength
of all the day. Let us never forget the secret:
<q>I can do all things through Christ who
strengtheneth me.</q> Let us have Jesus Christ
Himself in us to do the works, and let us every
moment fall back on Him, both to will and do
in us of His good pleasure. Let our holiness
be <q>the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus.</q>
Let our health be the <q>life of Jesus manifest in
our mortal flesh.</q> Let our faith be <q>the faith
of the Son of God who loved us.</q> Let our
peace and joy be His peace and joy. And let
our service be not our works, but the grace of
Christ within us.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 12.</head>

<p>
<q>When ye pray, believe that ye receive</q> (Mark xi. 24).
</p>

<p>
Consecration is entered by an act
of faith. You are to take the gift from
God, believe you have, and confess
that you have it. Step out on it firmly,
and let the devil know you have it as well as the
Lord. When once you say to Him boldly,
<q>I am Thine,</q> He answers back from the
heavenly heights, <q>Thou art Mine,</q> and the
echoes go ringing down through all your life,
<q>Mine! Thine!</q> If you dare confess Christ
as your Saviour and Sanctifier He has bound
Himself to make it a reality, but you must
stand behind His mighty Word. It is the essence
of testimony to tell of what Jesus has
promised to become to you. It is right to
have glorious words of thanksgiving, but
these are not exactly testimony. God would
have us put our seal on the promises, and
lift up our hands and acknowledge them as
ours.
</p>

<p>
Then you are to ignore the old life and reckon
it no longer yours if it should come up
again. Every time it appears say, <q>This is
from the under world. I am sitting in the
heavenly places with Christ.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Even Christ pleased not Himself</q> (Rom. xv. 3).
</p>

<p>
Let this be a day of self-forgetting ministry
for Christ and others. Let us not
once think of being ministered unto,
but say ever with Him: <q>I am among
you as He that doth serve.</q> Let us not drag
our burdens through the day, but drop all our
loads of care and be free to carry His yoke and
His burden. Let us make the happy exchange,
giving ours and taking His. Let the covenant
be: <q>Thou shalt abide for Me, I also for thee.</q>
So shall we lose our heaviest load&mdash;ourselves&mdash;and
so shall we find our highest joy, divine
love, the more blessed <q>to give</q> than <q>to receive.</q>
Let us do good to all men as we have
opportunity. Let us lose no opportunity of
blessing, and let us study ingenious ways of
service and usefulness. Especially let us seek
to win souls.
</p>

<lg>
<l>The Days of Heaven are busy days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>They serve continually,</l>
<l>So spent for Thee and Thine, our days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As the Days of Heaven would be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>The Days of Heaven are loving days,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As one they all agree,</l>
<l>So linked in loving unity</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>May our days as Heaven be.</l>
</lg>

</div>


<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 14.</head>

<p>
<q>Men ought always to pray</q> (Luke xviii. 1).
</p>

<p>
Let this be a day of prayer. Let us see
that our highest ministry and power is
to deal with God for men. Let us be
obedient to all the Holy Spirit's voices
of prayer in us. Let us count every pressure a
call to prayer. Let us cherish the spirit of unceasing
prayer and abiding communion. Let
us learn the meaning of the ministry of prayer.
Let us reach persons this day we cannot reach
in person; let us expect results that we have
never dared to claim before; let us count every
difficulty only a greater occasion for prayer,
and let us call on God, who will show us many
great and mighty things which we know not.
</p>

<p>
And let it be a day of joy and praise. Let us
live in the promises of God and the outlook of
His deliverance and blessing. Let us never
dwell on the trial but always on the victory
just before. Let us not dwell in the tomb,
but in the garden of Joseph and the light of the
resurrection. Let us keep our faces toward
the sun rising. Arise, shine. Rejoice evermore.
In everything give thanks. Praise ye
the Lord.
</p>

<p>
 Lord, give us Thy joy in our hearts which
shall lift us to lift others, and fill us so we may
overflow to others.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 15.</head>

<p>
<q>I am my Beloved's and my Beloved is mine</q>
(Song of Solomon vi. 3).
</p>

<p>
If I am the Lord's then the Lord is mine.
If Christ owns me I own Him. And so
faith must reach out and claim its full
inheritance and begin to use its great resources.
Moment by moment we may now
take Him as our grace and strength, our faith
and love, our victory and joy, our all in all.
And as we thus claim Him we will find His
grace sufficient for us, and begin to learn that
giving all is just receiving all. Yes, consecration
is getting Him fully instead of our own
miserable life. There are, indeed, two sides of
it. There are two persons in the consecration.
One of them is the dear Lord Himself. <q>And
for their sakes,</q> He says, <q>I consecrate Myself
that they also might be consecrated through
the truth.</q> The moment we consecrate ourselves
to Him He consecrates Himself to us,
and henceforth, the whole strength of His life
and love and everlasting power is dedicated to
keep and complete our consecration, and to
make the very best and most of our consecrated
life. Who would not give himself to such a
Saviour? Surely we will to-day, first give ourselves
and then give Him each moment as it
comes, to be filled and used.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 16.</head>

<p>
<q>As the hart panteth after the waterbrooks, so
panteth my soul after Thee, O God</q> (Ps. xlii. 1).
</p>

<p>
First in order to a consecrated life
there must be a sense of need, the need
of purity, of power, and of a greater
nearness to the Lord. There often
comes in Christian life a second conviction. It
is not now a sense of guilt and God's wrath so
much as of the power and evil of inward sin,
and the unsatisfactoriness of the life the soul
is living. It usually comes from the deeper
revelation of God's truth, from more spiritual
teaching, from definite examples and testimonies
of this life in others, and often from an experience
of deep trial, conflict and temptation
in which the soul has found its attainments
and resources inadequate for the real issues
and needs of life. The first result is often a
deep discouragement and even despair, but the
valley of Achor is the door of hope, and the
seventh chapter of Romans with its bitter cry,
<q>O wretched man that I am,</q> is the gateway
to the eighth with its shout of triumph, <q>The
Spirit of life in Christ hath made me free from
the law of sin and death.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 17.</head>

<p>
<q>By one offering He hath perfected forever them
that are sanctified</q> (Heb. x. 14).
</p>

<p>
Are you missing what belongs to you?
He has promised to sanctify you. He
has promised sanctification for you
by coming to you Himself and being
made of God to you sanctification. Jesus is
my sanctification. Having Him I have obedience,
rest, patience and everything I need. He
is alive forevermore. If you have Him nothing
can be against you. Your temptations will not
be against you; your bad temper will not be
against you; your hard life, your circumstances,
even the devil himself will not be
against you. Every time he comes to attack
you, he will only root you deeper in Christ.
You will become a coward at the thought of
being alone; you will be thrown on Jesus every
time a trouble assails you. All things henceforth
will work together for good to your own
soul. Since God is for you nothing can be
against you.
</p>

<lg>
<l>My heavenly Bridegroom sought me and called me one glad day,</l>
<l><q>Arise, my love, my fair one, arise and come away,</q></l>
<l>I listened to His pleading, I gave Him all my heart,</l>
<l>And we are one forever and nevermore shall part.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 18.</head>

<p>
<q>Ye are complete in Him</q> (Col. ii. 10).
</p>

<p>
In Him we are now complete. The perfect
pattern of the life of holy service
for which He has redeemed and called
us, is now in Him in heaven, even as the
architect's model is planned and prepared and
completed in his office. But now it must be
wrought into us and transferred to our earthly
life, and this is the Holy Spirit's work. He
takes the gifts and graces of Christ and brings
them into our life, as we need and receive them
day by day, just as the sections of the vessel
are reproduced in the distant Continent, and
thus we receive of His fulness, even grace for
grace, His grace for our grace, His supply for
our need, His strength for our strength, His
body for our body, His Spirit for our spirit, and
He just <q>made unto us of God wisdom, righteousness,
sanctification and redemption.</q>
</p>

<p>
But it is much more than mere abstract help
and grace, much more even than the Holy
Spirit bringing us strength, and peace, and
purity. It is personal companionship with Jesus
Himself!
</p>

<p>
Lord, help us receive from Thee to-day, that
grace in all trial that shall mean our perfecting
in Thee.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 19.</head>

<p>
<q>Nevertheless, David took the castle of Zion</q> (I.
Chron. xi. 5).
</p>

<p>
Many of you have so much fighting to
do because you do not have one
sharp, decisive battle to begin with.
It is far easier to have one great
battle than to keep on skirmishing all your life.
I know men who spend forty years fighting
what they call their besetting sin, and on which
they waste strength enough to evangelize the
world.
</p>

<p>
Dear friends, does it pay to throw away your
lives? Have one battle, one victory and then
praise God. So they had rest from their enemies
round about. There is labor to enter in.
The height is steep. The way of the cross is
not an easy way. It is hard to enter in, but
having entered in there is perfect rest. May
God help us and give us His perfect rest.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O come and leave thy sinful self forever</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Beneath the fountain of the Saviour's blood;</l>
<l>O come, and take Him as thy Sanctifier,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Come thou with us and we will do thee good.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Come to the land where all the foes are vanquished,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And sorrow, sin, disease and death subdued;</l>
<l>O weary soul! by Satan bruised and baffled,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Come thou with us and we will do thee good.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 20.</head>

<p>
<q>Forget also thine own</q> (Ps. xlv. 10).
</p>

<p>
We, too, like the ancient Levites, must
be <q>consecrated every one upon our
son and upon our brother,</q> and <q>forget
our kindred and our father's
house</q> in every sense in which they could hinder
our full liberty and service for the Lord.
We, too, must let our business go if it stands
between us and the Lord, and in any case let it
henceforth be His business and His alone, pursued
for Him, controlled by Him, and its profits
wholly dedicated to Him, and used as He
shall direct. And, like James and John, you
must be willing to give up <q>the hired servants</q>
too. It will make a great difference in your way
of living. It will be a change to give up your
ease and luxury, your being waited upon and
indulged in every wish, and have to do your
own work, to give up the attentions of others,
to put with privations, and inconveniences,
and humiliations, but it will be easy to do it
with Him. He never owned a foot of land.
He never rode in a carriage. He never had a
hired servant. He lay down at last in a borrowed
grave. But He is rich enough now, and
so will you be some day if you can only be
willing to suffer and to wait.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Look from the place where thou art</q> (Gen. xiii. 14).
</p>

<p>
Let us now see the blessedness of faith.
Our own littleness and nothingness
sometimes becomes bondage. We are
so small in our own eyes we dare not
claim God's mighty promises. We say: <q>If I
could be sure I was in God's way I could
trust.</q> This is all wrong. Self-consciousness
is a great barrier to faith. Get your eyes on
Him and Him alone; not on your faith, but on
the Author of your faith; not a half look, but a
steadfast, prolonged look, with a true heart
and fixedness of purpose, that knows no faltering,
no parleying with the enemy without a
shadow of fear. When you get afraid you are
almost sure to fail.
</p>

<p>
Travelers who have crossed the Alps know
how dangerous those mountain passes are, how
narrow the foothold, how deep the rocky ravines
and how necessary to safety it is that
you should look up continually; one downward
glance into the dizzy depths would be
fatal; and so if we would surmount the heights
of faith we must look up&mdash;look up. Get your
eyes off yourself, off surrounding circumstances,
off means, off gifts, to the Great Giver.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 22.</head>

<p>
<q>He that ministereth let us wait on our ministering</q>
(Rom. xii. 7).
</p>

<p>
Beloved, are you ministering to
Christ? Are you doing it with your
hands? Are you doing it with your
substance and with what you have?
Is He getting the best of what is most real
to you? Has He a place at your table?
And when He does not come to fill the
chair, is it free to His representative, His
poor and humble children? Your words and
wishes are cheap if they do not find expression
in your actual gifts. Even Mary did
not put Him off with the incense of her
heart, but laid her costliest gifts at His
feet.
</p>

<p>
Ye busy women, who work so hard to dress
your children and furnish your houses and
tables, what have your hands earned for the
Master, what have you done or sacrificed for
Jesus? <q>Can you afford it?</q> was asked of a
noble woman, as she promised a costly offering
for the Master's work. <q>No,</q> was her noble
reply, <q>but I can sacrifice it.</q> Let us to-day
look around us and see, what we do and give
more to the loving Saviour, who gave up His
whole life for us.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 23.</head>

<p>
<q>Bring them hither to Me</q> (Matt. xiv. 18).
</p>

<p>
Why have ye not received all the fulness
of the Holy Spirit? And how
may we be anointed with <q>the rest
of the oil?</q> The greatest need is to
make room when God makes it. Look around
you at your situation. Are you not encompassed
with needs at this very moment, and
almost overwhelmed with difficulties, trials and
emergencies? These are all divinely provided
vessels for the Holy Spirit to fill, and if you
would but rightly understand their meaning,
they would become opportunities for receiving
new blessings and deliverances which you can
get in no other way.
</p>

<p>
Bring these vessels to God. Hold them
steadily before Him in faith and prayer. Keep
still, and stop your own restless working until
He begins to work. Do nothing that He does
not Himself command you to do. Give Him
a chance to work, and He will surely do so,
and the very trials that threatened to overcome
you with discouragement and disaster, will become
God's opportunity for the revelation of
His grace and glory in your life, as you have
never known Him before. <q>Bring them (all
needs) to Me.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 24.</head>

<p>
<q>The righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us</q>
(Rom. vii. 4).
</p>

<p>
In our earlier experiences we know the
Holy Ghost only at a distance, in things
that happen in a providential direction,
or in the Word alone, but after awhile
we receive Him as an inward Guest, and He
dwells in our very midst, and He speaks to us
in the innermost chambers of our being. But
then the external working of His power does
not cease, but it only increases, and seems the
more glorious. The Power that dwells within
us works without us, answering prayer, healing
sickness, overruling providences, <q>Doing
exceeding abundantly above all that we ask
or think, according to the Power that worketh
in us.</q>
</p>

<p>
There is a double presence of the Lord for
the consecrated believer. He is present in the
heart, and is mightily present in the events
of life. He is the Christ in us, the Christ
of all the days, with all power in heaven and
earth.
</p>

<p>
And so the Holy Ghost is our wonder-worker,
our all sufficient God and Guardian, and He
is waiting in these days to work as mightily
in the affairs of men as in the days of Moses,
of Daniel and of Paul.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 25.</head>

<p>
<q>He that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable
to God</q> (Rom. xiv. 18).
</p>

<p>
God can only use us while we are right.
Satan cared far less for Peter's denial
of his Master than for the use he made
of it afterwards to destroy his faith.
So Jesus said to him: <q>I have prayed for
thee that thy faith fail not.</q> It was Peter's
faith he attacked, and so it is our faith
that Satan contests. <q>The trial of our faith
is much more precious than gold that perisheth.</q>
</p>

<p>
Whatever else we let go let us hold steadfastly
to our trust. <q>Cast not away, therefore,
your confidence,</q> and <q>hold fast the rejoicing
of our hope firm unto the end.</q> And if you
would hold your trust, hold your sweetness,
your rightness of spirit, your obedience to
Christ, your victory in every way.
</p>

<p>
Whatever comes, regard it as of less consequence,
than that you should triumph and stand
fast, and accepting every circumstance as God
is pleased to let occur, wave the banner of your
victory in the face of every foe, and go on,
shouting in His name, <q>Thanks be unto God
that always causeth us to triumph in Christ
Jesus.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 26.</head>

<p>
<q>Now mine eye seeth Thee</q> (Job xlii. 5).
</p>

<p>
We must recognize the true character
of our self-life and its real virulence
and vileness. We must consent
to its destruction, and we must take
it ourselves, as Abraham did Isaac, and lay it
at the feet of God in willing sacrifice.
</p>

<p>
This is a hard work for the natural heart, but
the moment the will is yielded and the choice is
made, that death is past, the agony is over, and
we are astonished to find that the death is accomplished.
</p>

<p>
Usually the crisis of life in such cases hangs
upon a single point. God does not need to
strike us in a hundred places to inflict a death
wound. There is one point that touches the
heart, and that is the point God usually strikes,
the dearest thing in our life, the decisive thing
in our plans, the citadel of the will, the center
of the heart, and when we yield there, there is
little left to yield anywhere else, and when we
refuse to yield at this point, a spirit of evasion
and compromise enters into all the rest of our
life. Lord, we take Thee to enable us to will
Thy will to be done in all things in our life
without and within.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 27.</head>

<p>
<q>The building up of the body of Christ</q> (R. V.,
Eph. iv. 13).
</p>

<p>
God is preparing His heroes, and when
the opportunity comes He can fit them
into their place in a moment and the
world will wonder where they came
from. Let the Holy Ghost prepare you, dear
friend, by all the discipline of life; and when
the last finishing touch has been given to the
marble, it will be easy for God to put it on the
pedestal, and fit it into its niche.
</p>

<p>
There is a day coming, when, like Othniel,
we, too, shall judge the nations, and rule and
reign with Christ on the millennial earth; but
ere that glorious day can be, we must let God
prepare us as He did Othniel at Kirjethsepher,
amid the trials of our present life, and
in the little victories, the significance of which,
perhaps, we little dream. At least, let us be
sure of this, that if the Holy Ghost has got an
Othniel ready, the Lord of heaven and earth
has a throne prepared for him.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Is it for me to be used by His grace,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Helping His kingdom to bring,</l>
<l>Is it for me to inherit a place,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>E'en on the throne of my King?</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 28.</head>

<p>
<q>Not my will, but Thine</q> (Luke xxii. 42).
</p>

<p>
He who once suffered in Gethsemane will
be our strength and our victory, too.
We may fear, we may also sink, but
let us not be dismayed, and we shall
yet praise Him, and look back from a finished
course, and say, <q>Not one word hath failed of
all that the Lord hath spoken.</q>
</p>

<p>
But in order to do this, we must, like Him,
meet the conflict, not with a defiant, but with a
submissive spirit. He had to say, <q>Not My
will, but Thine be done</q>; but in saying it, He
gained the very thing He surrendered. So the
submission of Gethsemane is not a blind and
dead submission of a heart that abandons all
its hope; but it is the free submission that bows
the head, in order to get double strength
through the faith and prayer.
</p>

<p>
We let go, in order that we may take a firmer
hold. We give up, in order that we may more
fully receive. We lay our Isaac on Mount
Moriah, and we ask him back, no longer our
Isaac, but God's Isaac, and infinitely more secure,
because given back in the resurrection
life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 29.</head>

<p>
<q>My helpers in Christ Jesus</q> (Rom. xvi. 3).
</p>

<p>
Christ's Church is overrun with captains.
She is in great need of a few
more privates. A few rivers run into
the sea, but a larger number run into
other rivers. We cannot all be pioneers, but
we can all be helpers, and no man is fitted to go
in the front until he has learned well how to go
second.
</p>

<p>
A spirit of self-importance is fatal to all work
for Christ. The biggest enemy of true spiritual
power is spiritual self-consciousness.
Joshua must die before Jericho can fall.
</p>

<p>
God often has to test His chosen servants by
putting them in a subordinate place before He
can bring them to the front. Joseph must
learn to serve in the kitchen and to suffer in
prison before he can rise to the throne, and as
soon as Joseph is ready for the throne, the
throne is always waiting for Joseph. God has
more places than accepted candidates. Let us
not be afraid to go into the training class, and
even take the lowest place, for we shall soon go
up, if we really deserve to. Lord, use me so
that Thou shalt be glorified and I shall be hid
from myself and others.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 30.</head>

<p>
<q>If thou wilt diligently hearken unto the voice of
the Lord thy God and wilt keep all His statutes</q>
(Ex. xv. 26).
</p>

<p>
Sometimes people fail because they
have not confidence in the Physician.
The very first requirement of this Doctor
is, that you trust Him, and trust
Him implicitly, so implicitly that you go forward
on His bare word, and act as if you had
received His healing the moment you claimed
His promise. But no one would expect to be
healed by an earthly doctor as soon as they
obeyed his directions.
</p>

<p>
You must do what the Great Physician tells
you, if you expect Him to make you whole.
</p>

<p>
You cannot expect to be healed if you are
living in sin, any more than you could expect
the best physician to cure you while you
lived in a malarial climate and inhaled poison
with every breath. So you must get up
into the pure air of trust and obedience
before Christ can make you whole. And then,
if you will trust Him, and attend to His directions,
you will find that there is balm in
Gilead, and that there is a Great Physician
there.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July 31.</head>

<p>
<q>We were troubled on every side</q> (II. Cor. vii. 5).
</p>

<p>
Why should God have to lead us thus,
and allow the pressure to be so hard
and constant?
</p>

<p>
Well, in the first place, it shows
His all-sufficient strength and grace much better
than if we were exempt from pressure and
trial. <q>The treasure is in earthen vessels, that
the excellency of the power may be of God, and
not of us.</q>
</p>

<p>
It make us more conscious of our dependence
upon Him. God is constantly trying to
teach us our dependence, and to hold us absolutely
in His hand and hanging upon His care.
</p>

<p>
This was the place where Jesus Himself
stood and where He wants us to stand, not
with a self-constituted strength, but with a
hand ever leaning upon His, and a trust that
dare not take one step alone.
</p>

<p>
It teaches us trust. There is no way of
learning faith except by trial. It is God's
school of faith, and it is far better for us to
learn to trust God than to enjoy life.
</p>

<p>
The lesson of faith, once learned, is an everlasting
acquisition and an eternal fortune
made; and without trust even riches will leave
us poor.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 1.</head>

<p>
<q>For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
Christ; that every one may receive the things done in
his body, according to that he hath done</q> (II Cor. v. 10).
</p>

<p>
It will not always be the day of toil and
trial. Some day, we shall hear our names
announced before the universe, and the
record read of things that we had long
forgotten. How our hearts will thrill, and
our heads will bow, as we shall hear our own
names called, and then the Master shall recount
the triumph and the services which we
had ourselves forgotten! And, perhaps, from
the ranks of the saved He shall call forward the
souls that we have won for Christ and the souls
that they in turn had won, and as we see the
issue of things that have, perhaps, seemed
but trifling at the time, we shall fall before
the throne, and say, <q>Not unto us, O
Lord, not unto us, but unto Thy name give
glory!</q>
</p>

<p>
Beloved, the pages are going up every day,
for the record of our life. We are setting the
type ourselves, by every moment's action.
Hands unseen are stereotyping the plates, and
soon the record will be registered, and read before
the audience of the universe. and amid the
issues of eternity.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 2.</head>

<p>
<q>Thy gentleness hath made me great</q> (Ps. xviii. 35).
</p>

<p>
The blessed Comforter is gentle, tender,
and full of patience and love. How
gentle are God's dealings even with
sinners! How patient His forbearance!
How tender His discipline, with His own
erring children! How He led Jacob, Joseph,
Israel, David, Elijah, and all His ancient servants,
until they could truly say, <q>Thy gentleness
hath made me great.</q>
</p>

<p>
The heart in which the Holy Spirit dwells
will always be characterized by gentleness,
lowliness, quietness, meekness, and forbearance.
The rude, sarcastic spirit, the brusque
manner, the sharp retort, the unkind cut&mdash;all
these belong to the flesh, but they have nothing
in common with the gentle teaching of the
Comforter.
</p>

<p>
The Holy Dove shrinks from the noisy, tumultuous,
excited, and vindictive spirit, and
finds His home in the lowly breast of the
peaceful soul. <q>The fruit of the Spirit is gentleness,
meekness.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lord, make me gentle. Hush my spirit. Refine
my manner. Let me have Christ in my bearing
and my very tones as well as in my heart.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 3.</head>

<p>
<q>Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty
hand of God</q> (I. Peter v. 6).
</p>

<p>
The pressure of hard places makes us
value life. Every time our life is given
back to us from such a trial, it is
like a new beginning, and we learn
better how much it is worth, and make more of
it for God and man.
</p>

<p>
The pressure helps us to understand the
trials of others, and fits us to help and sympathize
with them.
</p>

<p>
There is a shallow, superficial nature, that
gets hold of a theory or a promise lightly,
and talks very glibly about the distrust
of those who shrink from every trial; but
the man or woman who has suffered much
never does this, but is very tender and
gentle, and knows what suffering really
means.
</p>

<p>
This is what Paul meant when he said,
<q>Death worketh in us, but life in you.</q> Trials
and hard places are needed to press us forward;
even as the furnace fires in the hold of that
mighty ship give the force that moves the
piston, drives the engine, and propels that
great vessel across the sea, in the face of the
winds and waves.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Ye are not in the flesh but in the Spirit if so be
that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any
man have not the Spirit of Christ he is none of His</q>
(Rom. viii. 9).
</p>

<p>
A spiritual man is not so much a
man possessing a strong spiritual
character as a man filled with the
Holy Spirit. So the apostle said: <q>Ye
are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so
be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you.</q>
</p>

<p>
The glory of the new creation, then, is not
only that it recreates the human spirit, but that
it fits it for the abode of God Himself, and
makes it dependent upon the sun, as the
child upon the mother. The highest spirituality,
therefore, is the most utter helplessness,
the most entire dependence and the most complete
possession of the Holy Spirit. Therefore,
the beautiful act of Christ in breathing
upon His disciples, and imparting to them
from His own lips the very Spirit that was already
in Him, expressed in the most vivid
manner the crowning glory of the new creation.
And when the Holy Spirit thus possesses
us, He fills every part of our being.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 5.</head>

<p>
<q>If any man hear My voice and open the door I will
come into him and will sup with him and he with Me</q>
(Rev. iii. 20).
</p>

<p>
Some of us are starving, and wondering
why the Holy Spirit does not fill
us. We have plenty coming in, but we
do not give it out. Give out the blessing
you have, start larger plans for service and
blessing, and you will soon find that the Holy
Ghost is before you, and He will <q>prevent you
with the blessings of goodness,</q> and give you
all that He can trust you to give away to
others.
</p>

<p>
There is a beautiful fact in nature which has
its spiritual parallels. There is no music so
heavenly as an Aeolian harp, and the Aeolian
harp is nothing but a set of musical cords arranged
in harmony, and then left to be touched
by the unseen fingers of the wandering winds.
And as the breath of heaven floats over the
chords, it is said that notes almost divine float
out upon the air, as if a choir of angels were
wandering around and touching the strings.
</p>

<p>
And so it is possible to keep our hearts so
open to the touch of the Holy Spirit that He
can play upon them at will, as we quietly wait
in the pathway of His service.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 6.</head>

<p>
<q>As many as are led by the Spirit of God they
are the sons of God</q> (Rom. viii. 14).
</p>

<p>
The blessed Holy Spirit is our Guide,
our Leader, and our Resting-place.
There are times when He presses us
forward into prayer, into service, into
suffering, into new experiences, new duties,
new claims of faith, and hope, and love, but
there are times when He arrests us in our activity,
and rests us under His overshadowing
wing, and quiets us in the secret place of the
Most High, teaching us some new lessons,
breathing into us some deeper strength or fulness,
and then leading us on again, at His bidding
alone. He is the true Guide of the saint,
and the true Leader of the Church, our wonderful
Counsellor, our unerring Friend;
and he who would deny the personal guidance
of the Holy Ghost in order that he
might honor the Word of God as our
only guide, must dishonor that other word
of promise, that His sheep shall know His
voice, and that His hearkening and obedient
children shall hear a voice behind
them saying, <q>This is the way, walk ye in
it.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 7.</head>

<p>
<q>Knowing this that our old man is crucified</q> (Rom.
vi. 6).
</p>

<p>
It is purely a matter of faith, and faith
and sight always differ, so that to your
senses it does not seem to be so, but
your faith must still reckon it so. This
is a very difficult attitude to hold, and only as
we thoroughly believe God can we thus reckon
upon His Word and His working, but as we do
so, faith will convert it into fact, and it will
be even so.
</p>

<p>
These two words, <q>yield</q> and <q>reckon,</q> are
passwords into the resurrection life. They are
like the two edges of the <q>Sword of the Spirit</q>
through which we enter into crucifixion with
Christ.
</p>

<p>
This act of surrender and this reckoning of
faith are recognized in the New Testament as
marking a very definite crisis in the spiritual
life. It does not mean that we are expected to
be going through a continual dying, but that
there should be one very definite act of dying,
and then a constant habit of reckoning ourselves
as dead, and meeting everything from
this standpoint.
</p>

<p>
<q>Reckon yourselves dead indeed unto sin,
but alive unto God, through Jesus Christ.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 8.</head>

<p>
<q>Be like the dove</q> (Jer. xlviii. 28).
</p>

<p>
Harmless as a dove, is Christ's interpretation
of the beautiful emblem.
And so the Spirit of God is purity itself.
He cannot dwell in an unclean
heart. He cannot abide in the natural mind.
It was said of the anointing of old, <q>On man's
flesh it shall not be poured.</q>
</p>

<p>
The purity which the Holy Spirit brings is
like the white and spotless little plant which
grows up out of the heap of manure, or the
black soil, without one grain of impurity adhering
to its crystalline surface, spotless as an
angel's wing.
</p>

<p>
So the Holy Spirit gives a purity of heart
which gives its own protection, for it is essentially
unlike the evil things which grow
around it. It may be surrounded on every side
with evil, but it is uncontaminated and pure
because its very nature is essentially holy and
divine. Like the plumage of the dove, it cannot
be soiled, but comes forth from the miry
pool unstained and unsullied by the dark waters,
because it is protected by the oily covering
which sheds off every defilement and
makes it proof against the touch of every stain.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 9.</head>

<p>
<q>He shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live
goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children
of Israel; transgressions and sins</q> (Lev. xvi. 21).
</p>

<p>
As any evil comes up, and the consciousness
of any unholy thing
touches our inner senses, it is our
privilege at once to hand it over to the
Holy Ghost and to lay it upon Jesus, as something
already crucified with Him, and as of
old, in the case of the sin offering, it will be
carried without the camp and burned to ashes.
</p>

<p>
There may be deep suffering, there may be
protracted pain, it may be intensely real; but
throughout all there will be a very sweet and
sacred sense of God's presence, and intense
purity in our whole spirit, and our separation
from the evil which is being consumed. Truly,
it will be borne without the camp, and even
without the smell of the flames upon our garments.
</p>

<p>
It is so blessed to have the Holy Spirit slay
things. No swords but His can pass so perfectly
between us and the evil, so that it consumes
the sin without touching the spirit.
</p>

<p>
Lord Jesus, my Sin Offering, I lay my sin,
my self, my whole nature, upon Thy Cross.
Consume me by Thy holy fire, and let me die
to all but Thee!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 10.</head>

<p>
<q>There is no spot in thee</q> (Song of Solomon iv. 7).
</p>

<p>
The blessed Holy Spirit who possesses
the consecrated heart is intensely concerned
for our highest life, and watches
us with a sensitive, and even a
jealous love. Very beautiful is the true translation
of that ordinary passage in the Epistle
of James, <q>The Spirit that dwelleth in us loveth
us to jealousy.</q>
</p>

<p>
The heart of the Holy Ghost is intensely
concerned in preserving us from every stain
and blemish, and bringing us into the very
highest possibilities of the will of God.
</p>

<p>
The Heavenly Bridegroom would have His
Church not only free from every spot, but also
from <q>every wrinkle, or any such thing.</q> The
spot is the mark of sin, but the wrinkle is the
sign of weakness, age, and decay, and He
wants no such defacing touch upon the holy
features of His Beloved; and so the Holy
Ghost, who is the Executor of His will, and
the Divine Messenger whom He sends to call,
separate, and bring home His Bride, is jealously
concerned in fulfilling in us all the Master's
will.
</p>

<p>
Lord, take from me every blemish and mark
of weakness and decay, and make me Thy spotless
Bride.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 11.</head>

<p>
<q>All the land which thou seest</q> (Gen. xiii. 15).
</p>

<p>
The actual provisions of His grace come
from the inner vision.
</p>

<p>
He who puts the instinct in the
bosom of yonder bird to cross the continent
in search of summer sunshine in yonder
Southern clime is too good to deceive it, and
just as surely as He has put the instinct in its
breast, so has He also put the balmy breezes
and the vernal sunshine yonder to meet it when
it arrives.
</p>

<p>
He who gave to Abraham the vision of the
Land of Promise, also said in infinite truth and
love: <q>All the land that thou seest will I give
thee.</q> He who breathes into our hearts the
heavenly hope, will not deceive or fail us when
we press forward to its realization. There is
nothing unfaithful in Him who has said: <q>If
it were not so, I would have told you,</q> and
we may know that He never will deceive
us nor fail us, but all that He reveals by
His Holy Spirit He will make our own, as
we press forward and enter into its realization.
</p>

<p>
Lord, give me first the vision and then the
victory. Show me all my inheritance, and
then give it all to me in Christ Jesus.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 12.</head>

<p>
<q>Not ourselves, but Christ Jesus</q> (II. Cor. iv. 5).
</p>

<p>
Your Christian influence, your reputation
as a worker for God, and your
standing among your brethren, may be
an idol to which you must die, before
you can be free to live for Him alone.
</p>

<p>
If you have ever noticed the type on a
printed page, you must have seen that the little
<q><hi rend='italic'>i</hi></q> has always a dot over it, and it is that dot
that elevates it above the other letters in the
line.
</p>

<p>
Now, each us us is a little <hi rend='italic'>i</hi>, and over every
one of us there is a little dot of self-importance,
self-will, self-interest, self-confidence, self-complacency,
or something to which we cling
and for which we contend, which just as surely
reveals self-life as if it were a mountain of real
importance.
</p>

<p>
This <hi rend='italic'>i</hi> is a rival of Jesus Christ, and the enemy
of the Holy Ghost, and of our peace and
life, and therefore God has decreed its death,
and the Holy Spirit, with His flaming sword
is waiting to destroy it, that we may be able
to enter through the gates and come to the
Tree of Life. Lord, crowd me out by Thy fulness
even as the glory of the Lord left no
room for Moses in the Tabernacle.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Clouds and darkness are round about Him</q> (Ps.
xcvii. 2).
</p>

<p>
The presence of clouds upon your sky,
and trials in your path, is the very
best evidence that you are following
the pillar of cloud, and walking in the
presence of God. They had to enter the cloud
before they could behold the glory of the transfiguration,
and a little later that same cloud
became the chariot to receive the ascending
Lord, and it is still waiting as the chariot that
will bring His glorious appearing.
</p>

<p>
Still it is true that white <q>clouds and darkness
are round about His throne, mercy and
truth</q> are ever in their midst, and <q>shall go
before His face.</q>
</p>

<p>
Perhaps the most beautiful and gracious use
of the cloud was to shelter them from the fiery
sun. Like a great umbrella, that majestic pillar
spread its canopy above the camp, and became
a shielding shadow from the burning
heat in the treeless desert. No one who has
never felt an Oriental sun can fully appreciate
how much this means&mdash;a shadow from the
heat.
</p>

<p>
So the Holy Spirit comes between us and
the fiery, scorching rays of sorrow and temptation.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 14.</head>

<p>
<q>Touch not Mine anointed, and do My prophets
no harm</q> (Ps. cv. 15).
</p>

<p>
I would rather play with the forked
lightning, or take in my hands living
wires, with their fiery current, than
speak a reckless word against any servant
of Christ, or idly repeat the slanderous
darts which thousands of Christians are hurling
on others, to the hurt of their own souls
and bodies.
</p>

<p>
You may often wonder, perhaps, why your
sickness is not healed, your spirit filled with
the joy of the Holy Ghost, or your life blessed
and prosperous. It may be that some dart
which you have flung with angry voice, or in
an idle hour of thoughtless gossip, is pursuing
you on its way, as it describes the circle which
always bring back to the source from which
it came every shaft of bitterness, and every
idle and evil word.
</p>

<p>
Let us remember that when we persecute or
hurt the children of God, we are but persecuting
Him, and hurting ourselves far more.
</p>

<p>
Lord, make me as sensitive to the feelings
and rights of others as I have often been to my
own, and let me live and love like Thee.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 15.</head>

<p>
<q>He will guide you into all truth</q> (John xvi. 13).
</p>

<p>
The Holy Ghost does not come to give
us extraordinary manifestations, but
to give its life and light, and the nearer
we come to Him, the more simple will
His illumination and leading be. He comes to
<q>guide us into all truth.</q> He comes to shed
light upon our own hearts, and to show us ourselves.
He comes to reveal Christ, to give, and
then to illumine, the Holy Scriptures, and to
make Divine realities vivid and clear to our
spiritual apprehension. He comes as a Spirit
of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of
Christ, to <q>enlighten the eyes of our understanding,
that we may know what is the hope
of His calling, and what the riches of the glory
of His inheritance in the saints, and what is
the exceeding greatness of His power to us-ward
who believe, according to the working of
His mighty power.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Spirit of Power! with heavenly fire,</l>
<l>Our souls endue, our tongues inspire;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Stretch forth Thy mighty Hand,</l>
<l>Thy Pentecostal gifts restore,</l>
<l>The wonders of Thy power once more</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Display in every land.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 16.</head>

<p>
<q>I am with you alway</q> (Matt. xxviii. 20).
</p>

<p>
Oh, how it helps and comforts us in the
plod of life to know that we have
with us the Christ who spent the first
thirty years of His life in the carpenter
shop at Nazareth, swinging the hammer,
covered with sweat and grimy dust, physically
weary as we often are, and able to understand
all our experiences of drudgery and labor! and
One who still loves to share our common tasks
and equip us for our difficult undertakings of
hand and brain!
</p>

<p>
Yes, humble sister, He will help you at the
washboard and the kitchen-sink as gladly as
at the hour of prayer. Yes, busy mechanic,
He will go with you and help you to swing the
hammer, or handle the saw, or hold the plow
in the toil of life, and you shall be a better
mechanic, a more skilled workman, and a more
successful man, because you take His wisdom
for the common affairs of life. There is no
place or time where He is not able and willing
to walk by our side, to work through our
hands and brains, and to unite Himself in loving
and all-sufficient partnership with all our
needs and tasks and trials, and prove our all-sufficiency
for all things.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 17.</head>

<p>
<q>Speak ye unto the Rock</q> (Num. xx. 8).
</p>

<p>
The Holy Ghost is very sensitive, as
love always is. You can conquer a
wild beast by blows and chains, but
you cannot conquer a woman's heart
that way, or win the love of a sensitive nature;
that must be wooed by the delicate touches of
trust and affection. So the Holy Ghost has
to be taken by a faith as delicate and sensitive
as the gentle heart with whom it is coming in
touch. One thought of unbelief, one expression
of impatient distrust or fear, will instantly
check the perfect freedom of His operations as
much as a breath of frost would wither the
petals of the most sensitive rose or lily.
</p>

<p>
Speak to the Rock, do not strike it. Believe
in the Holy Ghost and treat Him with the
tenderest confidence and the most unwavering
trust, and He will meet you with instant response
and confidence.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, have you come to the rock in Kadesh?
Have you opened all your being to the
fulness of the Spirit, and then, with the confidence
of the child to the mother, the bride to
the husband, the flower to the sunshine, have
you received by faith, and are you drinking of
His blessed life?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 18.</head>

<p>
<q>The three hundred blew the trumpets</q> (Judges
vii. 22).
</p>

<p>
We little dream, sometimes, what a
hasty word, a thoughtless speech,
an imprudent act, or a confession of
unbelief and fear may do to hinder
our highest usefulness, or turn it aside from
some great opportunity which God has been
preparing for us.
</p>

<p>
Although the Holy Ghost uses weak men,
He does not want them to be weak after He
chooses and calls them. Although He uses
the foolish things to confound the wise, He
does not want us to be foolish after He comes
to give us His wisdom and grace. He uses the
foolishness of preaching, but, not necessarily,
the foolishness of preachers. Like the electric
current, which can supply the strength of a
thousand men, it is necessary that it should
have a proper conductor, and a very small
wire is better than a very big rope.
</p>

<p>
God wants fit instruments for His power&mdash;wills
surrendered, hearts trusting, lives consistent,
and lips obedient to His will; and then
He can use the weakest weapons, and make
them mighty through God to the pulling down
of strongholds.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 19.</head>

<p>
<q>Have faith in God</q> (Mark xi. 22).
</p>

<p>
He requires of us a perfect faith, and
He tells us that if we believe and doubt
not, we shall have whatsoever we ask.
The faintest touch of unbelief will
neutralize our trust.
</p>

<p>
But how shall we have such perfect faith?
Is it possible for human nature? Nay, but it
is possible to the Divine nature, it is possible
to the Christ within us. It is possible for God
to give it; and God does give it. But Christ is
the Author and Finisher of our faith, and He
bids us have the faith of God, and as we have
it through the imparting of the Spirit of Christ,
we believe even as He.
</p>

<p>
We pray in His name, and in His very nature,
and we live by the faith of the Son of
God who loved us and gave Himself for us.
The love that He requires of us is not mere human
love, nor even the standard of love required
in the Old Testament, but something
far higher. The new commandment is, Love
one another, not as yourselves, but as I have
loved you.
</p>

<p>
How shall such love be made possible?
Herein is our love made perfect, because as He
is so are we also in this world. Our love is
simply His love wrought in us, and imparted
to us through the Spirit.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 20.</head>

<p>
<q>Herein is My Father glorified</q> (John xv. 8).
</p>

<p>
The true way to glorify God is, for God
to show His glory through us, to shine
through us as empty vessels reflecting
His fulness of grace and power.
</p>

<p>
The sun is glorified when he has a chance to
show his light through the crystal window, or
reflect it from the spotless mirror or the glassy
sea.
</p>

<p>
There is nothing that glorifies God so much
as for a weak and helpless man or woman to be
able to triumph, through His strength, in
places where the highest human qualities will
fail us, and carry in Divine power through every
form of toil and suffering, a spirit naturally
weak, irresolute, selfish, and sinful, transformed
into sweetness, purity, power and standing
victorious amid circumstances from which its
natural qualities must utterly unfit it. A mind
not naturally wise or strong, directed by a Divine
wisdom, and carried along the line of a
great and mighty plan, and used to accomplish
stupendous results for God and man&mdash;this is
what glorifies God.
</p>

<p>
So let me glorify my Lord this day and
adorn the doctrine of God in all things.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 21.</head>

<p>
<q>The battle is not yours</q> (II. Chron. xx. 15).
</p>

<p>
The thing is to count the battle God's.
<q>The battle is not yours, but God's.</q>
Ye shall not need to fight in this battle.
As long as we count the dangers
and responsibilities ours, we shall be distracted
with fear, but when we realize He is bound
to take care of us, as His property and His representatives,
we shall feel infinite relief and
security.
</p>

<p>
If I send my servant on a long journey I
am responsible for his expenses and protection,
and if God sends me anywhere, He is responsible.
If we belong to God, and put our
life, our family, and our all in His hands, we
may know He will take care of us.
</p>

<p>
If our body belongs to Him, it is His interest
to keep us well, just as much as it is for
the interest of the shepherd to have his sheep
well fed and well cared for, and a credit to him.
</p>

<p>
<q>Thanks be unto God who always causeth
us to triumph.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Stand up, stand up for Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Stand in His strength alone;</l>
<l>The arm of flesh will fail you,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Ye dare not trust your own.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 22.</head>

<p>
<q>I the Lord, the first and with the last</q> (Isa. xli. 4).
</p>

<p>
Thousands of people get stranded
after they have embarked on the great
voyage of holiness, because they have
depended upon the experience rather
than on the Author of it. They had supposed
that they were thoroughly and permanently
delivered from all sin, and in the ecstacy of
their first experience they imagine that they
shall never again be tried and tempted as before,
and when they step out into the actual
facts of Christian life and find themselves failing
and falling, they are astonished and perplexed,
and they conclude that they must have
been mistaken in their experience, and so they
make a new attempt at the same thing, and
again fall, until at last, worn out, with the experiment,
they conclude that the experience is
a delusion, or, at least, that it was never intended
for them, and so they fall back into
the old way, and their last state is worse than
the first.
</p>

<p>
What men and women need to-day is to
know, not sanctification as a state, but Christ
as a living Person.
</p>

<p>
Lord Jesus, give me Thy heart, Thy faith,
Thy life, Thyself.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 23.</head>

<p>
<q>Even as He is pure</q> (I. John iii. 3).
</p>

<p>
God is now aiming to reproduce in us
the pattern which has already appeared
in Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
The Christian life is not an imitation
of Christ, but a direct new creation in Christ,
and the union with Christ is so complete
that He imparts His own nature to us and
lives His own life in us and then it is not an
imitation, but simply the outgrowth of the nature
implanted within.
</p>

<p>
We live Christ-like because we have the
Christ-life. God is not satisfied with anything
less than perfection. He required that from
His Son. He requires it from us, and He does
not, in the process of grace, reduce the standard,
but He brings us up to it. He does not
let down the righteousness of the law, but He
requires of us a righteousness that far
exceeds the righteousness of the Scribes and
Pharisees, and then He imparts it to us. He
counts us righteous in sanctification, and He
says of the new creation, <q>He that doeth righteousness
is righteous even as He is righteous.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lord, live out thy very life in me.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 24.</head>

<p>
<q>Let your moderation be known unto all men</q>
(Phil. iv. 5).
</p>

<p>
The very test of consecration is our willingness
not only to surrender the
things that are wrong, but to surrender
our rights, to be willing to be subject.
When God begins to subdue a soul, He often
requires us to yield the things that are of little
importance in themselves, and thus break
our neck and subdue our spirit.
</p>

<p>
No Christian worker can ever be used of God
until the proud self-will is broken, and the
heart is ready to yield to God's every touch, no
matter through whom it may come.
</p>

<p>
Many people want God to lead them in their
way and they will brook no authority or restraint.
They will give their money, but they
want to dictate how it shall be spent. They
will work as long as you let them please themselves,
but let any pressure come and you immediately
run up against, not the grace of resignation,
but a letter of resignation, withdrawing
from some important trust, and arousing
a whole community of criticising friends,
equally disposed to have their own opinions
and their own will about it. It is destructive
of all real power.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 25.</head>

<p>
<q>And I will put My Spirit within you, and cause
you to walk in My statutes, and ye shall keep My
judgments and do them</q> (Ezek. xxxvi. 27).
</p>

<p>
This is a great deal more than a new
heart. This a heart filled with the
Holy Ghost, the Divine Spirit, the
power that causes us to walk in God's
commandments.
</p>

<p>
This is the greatest crisis that comes to a
Christian's life, when into the spirit that was
renewed in conversion, God Himself comes to
dwell and make it His abiding place, and hold
it by His mighty power in holiness and righteousness.
</p>

<p>
Now, after this occurs, one would suppose
that we would be lifted into a much more
hopeful and exuberant spirit, but the prophet
gives a very different picture. He says when
this comes to pass we shall loathe ourselves in
our own eyes.
</p>

<p>
The revelation of God gives a profound
sense of our own nothingness and worthlessness,
and lays us on our face in the dust in self-abnegation.
</p>

<p>
The incoming of the Holy Ghost displaces
self and disgraces self forever, and the highest
holiness is to walk in self-renunciation.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 26.</head>

<p>
<q>Thine handmaid hath not anything in the house save
a pot of oil</q> (II. Kings iv. 2).
</p>

<p>
He asked her, <q>What hast thou in the
house?</q> And she said, <q>Nothing but
a pot of oil.</q> But that pot of oil was
adequate for all her wants, if she had
only known how to use it.
</p>

<p>
In truth it represented the Holy Spirit, and
the great lesson of the parable is that the Holy
Ghost is adequate for all our wants, if we only
know how to use Him.
</p>

<p>
All that she needed was to get sufficient vessels
to hold the overflow, and then to pour out
until all were filled.
</p>

<p>
And so the Holy Spirit is limited only by
our capacity to receive Him, and when God
wants us to have a larger fulness, He has to
make room for it by creating greater needs.
</p>

<p>
God sends us new vessels to be filled with
His Holy Spirit in the needs that come to us,
and the trials that meet us. These are
God's opportunities for God to give us more
of Himself, and as we meet them He comes
to us in larger fulness for each new necessity.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me to see Thee in all my trying
situations and to make them vessels to hold
more of Thy grace.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 27.</head>

<p>
<q>Take no thought for your life</q> (Matt. vi. 25).
</p>

<p>
Still the Lord is using the things that
are despised. The very names of Nazarene
and Christian were once epithets
of contempt. No man can have God's
highest thought and be popular with his immediate
generation. The most abused men are
often most used.
</p>

<p>
There are far greater calamities than to be
unpopular and misunderstood. There are far
worse things than to be found in the minority.
Many of God's greatest blessings are lying behind
the devil's scarecrows of prejudice and
misrepresentation. The Holy Ghost is not
ashamed to use unpopular people. And if He
uses them, what need they care for men?
</p>

<p>
Oh, let us but have His recognition and
man's notice will count for little, and He will
give us all we need of human help and praise.
Let us only seek His will, His glory, His approval.
Let us go for Him on the hardest errands
and do the most menial tasks. Honor
enough that He uses us and sends us. Let us
not fear in this day to follow Him outside the
camp, bearing His reproach, and by-and-by
He will own our worthless name before the
myriads of earth and sky.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 28.</head>

<p>
<q>According to the power that worketh in us</q> (Eph.
iii. 20).
</p>

<p>
When we reach the place of union
with God, through the indwelling
of the Holy Ghost, we come into the
inheritance of external blessing and
enter upon the land of our possession. Then
our physical health and strength come to us
through the power of our interior life; then
the prayer is fulfilled, that we shall be in health
and prosper, as our soul prospereth. Then,
with the kingdom of God and His righteousness
within us, all things are added
unto us.
</p>

<p>
God's external working always keeps pace
with the power that worketh in us. When
God is enthroned in a human soul, then the
devil and the world soon find it out. We
do not need to advertise our power. Jesus
could not be hid, and a soul filled with Divine
power and purity should become the center
of attraction to hungry hearts and suffering
lives.
</p>

<p>
Let us receive Him and recognize Him in
His indwelling glory, and then will we appropriate
all that it means for our life in all its
fulness. Lord, give me the <q>hiding of Thy
power,</q> and let Christ be glorified in me.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 29.</head>

<p>
<q>To obey is better than sacrifice</q> (I. Sam. xv. 22).
</p>

<p>
Our healing is thus represented as a
special recompense for obedience. If,
therefore, we would please the Lord
and have the reward of those who
please Him, there is no service so acceptable
to Him as our praise.
</p>

<p>
Let us ever meet Him with a glad and thankful
heart and He will reflect it back in the
health of our countenance and the buoyant
life and springing health, which is but the echo
of a joyful heart.
</p>

<p>
Further, thankfulness is the best preparation
for faith. Trust grows spontaneously in
the praiseful heart. Thankfulness takes the
sunny side of the street and looks at the bright
side of God, and it is only thus that we can
ever trust Him. Unbelief looks at our troubles
and, of course, they seem like mountains,
and faith is discouraged by the prospect. A
thankful disposition will always find some
cause for cheer, and gloomy one will find a
cloud in the brightest sky and a fly in the sweetest
ointment. Let us cultivate a spirit of
cheerfulness, and we shall find so much in
God and in our lives to encourage us that we
shall have no room for doubt or fear.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='248'/><anchor id='Pg248'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 30.</head>

<p>
<q>Happy are ye if ye do them</q> (John xiii. 17).
</p>

<p>
You little know the rest that comes from
the yielded will, the surrendered
choice, the abandoned world, the meek
and lowly heart that lets the world go
by, and knows that it shall inherit the earth
which it has refused! You little know the relish
that it gives to the blessing to hunger and
thirst after righteousness, and to be filled
with a satisfaction that worldly delight cannot
afford, and then to rise to the higher blessedness
of the merciful, the forgiving, the
hearts that have learned that it is <q>more blessed
to give than to receive,</q> and the lives that
find that <q>letting go is twice possessing,</q> and
blessing others is to be doubly blessed!
</p>

<p>
Nay, there is yet one jewel brighter than all
the rest in this crown of beatitudes. It is the
tear-drop crystallized into the diamond, the
blood-drop transfigured into the ruby of heaven's
eternal crown. It is the joy of suffering
with Jesus, and then forgetting all the sorrow
in the overflowing joy, until with the heavenly
Pascal we know not which to say first, and so
we say them both together, <q>Tears upon tears,
joy upon joy</q>.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='249'/><anchor id='Pg249'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August 31.</head>

<p>
<q>Lead me in the way everlasting</q> (Ps. cxxxix. 24).
</p>

<p>
There is often apparently but little
difference in two distinct lives between
constant victory and frequent
victory. But that one little difference
constitutes a world of success or failure. The
one is the Divine, the other is the human; the
one is the everlasting way, the other the transient
and the imperfect. God wants to lead
us to the way everlasting, and to establish us
and make us immovable as He. We little
know the seriousness of the slightest surrender.
It is but the first step in a downward
progression, and God only knows where it
shall end.
</p>

<p>
Let us be <q>not of them that draw back unto
perdition, but of them that believe unto the
saving our the soul.</q>
</p>

<p>
Your victory to-day is but preparing the
way for a greater victory to-morrow, and your
surrender to-day is opening the door for a
more terrible defeat in the days to come. Let
us, therefore, whatever we have claimed from
our blessed Master, commit it to His keeping,
and take Him to establish us and hold us fast
in the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='250'/><anchor id='Pg250'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 1.</head>

<p>
<q>Afterward that which is spiritual</q> (I. Cor. xv. 46).
</p>

<p>
God has often to bring us not only into
the place of suffering, and the bed of
sickness and pain, but also into the
place where our righteousness breaks
down and our character falls to pieces, in order
to humble us in the dust and show us the need
of entire crucifixion to all our natural life.
Then, at the feet of Jesus we are ready to receive
Him, to abide in Him and depend upon
Him alone, and draw all our life and strength
each moment from Him, our Living Head.
</p>

<p>
It was thus that Peter was saved by his very
fall, and had to die to Peter that he might live
more perfectly to Christ.
</p>

<p>
Have we thus died, and have we thus renounced
the strength of our own self-confidence?
</p>

<p>
We begin life with the natural, next we come
into the spiritual; but then, when we have
truly received the kingdom of God and His
righteousness, the natural is added to the spiritual,
and we are able to receive the gifts of
His providence and the blessings of life without
becoming centered in them or allowing
them to separate us from Him.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='251'/><anchor id='Pg251'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 2.</head>

<p>
<q>Who hath despised the day of small things</q> (Zech.
iv. 10).
</p>

<p>
The oak comes out of the acorn, the
eagle out of that little egg in the nest,
the harvest comes out of the seed; and
so the glory of the coming age is all
coming out of the Christ life now, even as the
majesty of His kingdom was all wrapped up
that night in the babe of Bethlehem.
</p>

<p>
Oh, let us take Him for all our life. Let us
be united to His person and His risen body.
Let us know what it is to say, <q>The Lord is
for the body and the body is for the Lord</q>!
We are members of His body and His flesh
and His bones.
</p>

<p>
He that gave that little infant, His own
blessed babe and His only begotten Son, on
that dark winter night to the arms of a cruel
and ungrateful world, will not refuse to give
Him in all His fulness to your heart if you
will but open your heart and give Him right of
way and full ownership and possession. Then
shall you know in your measure His quickening
life, even in this earthly life, and by-and-by
your hope shall reach its full fruition when
you shall sit with Him on His throne with
every fiber of your immortal being even as He.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='252'/><anchor id='Pg252'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 3.</head>

<p>
<q>The God of Israel hath separated you</q> (Num.
xvi. 9).
</p>

<p>
The little plant may grow out of a manure
heap, and be surrounded by filth,
and covered very often with the floating
dust that is borne upon the breeze,
but its white roots are separated from the unclean
soil, and its leaves and flowers have no
affinity with the dust that settles upon them;
and after a shower of summer rain they throw
off every particle of defilement, and look up, as
fresh and spotless as before, for their intrinsic
nature cannot have any part with these defiling
things.
</p>

<p>
This is the separation which Christ requires
and which He gives. There is no merit in my
staying from the theater if I want to go. There
is no value in my abstaining from the foolish
novel or the intoxicating cup, if I am all the
time wishing I could have them. My heart
is there, and my soul is defiled by the desire
for evil things. It is not the world that
stains us, but the love of the world. The
true Levite is separated from the desire for
earthly things, and even if he could, he would
not have the forbidden pleasures which others
prize.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='253'/><anchor id='Pg253'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Come ye yourselves apart</q> (Mark vi. 31).
</p>

<p>
One of the greatest hindrances to spirituality
is the lack of waiting upon
God. You cannot go through twenty-four
hours with two or three breaths
of air, in the morning, as you sip your coffee.
But you must live in the atmosphere, and you
must breathe it all day long. Christians do
not wait upon God enough. It needs hours
and hours daily of spiritual communion with
the Holy Spirit to keep your vitality healthful
and full. Every moment should find you
breathing out yourself into Christ, and breathing
afresh His life, and love and power.
</p>

<p>
God is waiting to send us the Holy Spirit.
He is longing to bless us. His one business is
to quicken and sustain our spiritual life. He
has nothing else to do with His infinite and
great resources. Let us receive Him. Let us
live in Him. Let us give to Him the joy of
knowing that His infinite grace has not been
bestowed in vain, but that we appreciate and
improve the blessings which He oft has so freely
bestowed.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me this day to dwell in Thee as
the flower in the sunshine, as the fish in the
sea, living in Thy love as the atmosphere and
element of my being.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='254'/><anchor id='Pg254'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 5.</head>

<p>
<q>He breathed on them</q> (John xx. 22).
</p>

<p>
The beautiful figure suggested by this
passage is full of simple instruction.
It is as easy to receive the Holy Ghost
as it is to breathe. It almost seems as
if the Lord had given them the very impression
of breathing, and had said, <q>Now, this is the
way to receive the Holy Ghost.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is not necessary for you to go to a smallpox
hospital to have your lungs contaminated
with impure air. It is enough for you to keep
in your lungs the air you inhaled a minute ago
and it will kill you. All the pure elements
have been absorbed from it, and there is nothing
left but carbon and other deadly gases and
fluids.
</p>

<p>
Therefore, if you are to be filled with the
Holy Spirit, you must first get emptied not
only of your old sinful life, but of your old spiritual
life. You must get a new breath every
moment, or you will die. God wants you to
empty out all your being into Him, and then
you will take Him in, without needing to try
too hard. A vacuum always gets filled, an
empty pair of lungs unavoidably breathes in
the pure air. If you are only in the true attitude,
there will be no trouble about receiving
the Holy Ghost.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='255'/><anchor id='Pg255'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 6.</head>

<p>
<q>Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord</q> (Phil. iii. 1).
</p>

<p>
There is no spiritual value in depression.
One bright and thankful look
at the cross is worth a thousand morbid,
self-condemning reflections. The
longer you look at evil the more it mesmerizes
and defiles you into its own likeness. Lay it
down at the cross, accept the cleansing blood,
reckon yourself dead to the thing that was
wrong, and then rise up and count yourself as
if you were another man and no longer the
same person; and then, identifying yourself
with the Lord Jesus, accept your standing in
Him and look in your Father's face as blameless
as Jesus. Then out of your every fault will
come some lesson of watchfulness or some secret
of victory which will enable you some day
to thank Him, even for your painful experience.
</p>

<p>
But praise is a sacrifice, for <q>it is acceptable
to God.</q> It goes up to heaven sweeter than
the songs of angels, <q>a sweet smelling savor to
your Lord and King.</q> It should be unintermittent&mdash;<q>the
sacrifice of praise continually.</q>
One drop of poison will neutralize a whole cup
of wine, and make it a cup of death, and one
moment of gloom will defile a whole day of
sunshine and gladness. Let us <q>rejoice evermore.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='256'/><anchor id='Pg256'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 7.</head>

<p>
<q>I will joy in the God of my salvation</q> (Hab. iii. 18).
</p>

<p>
The secret of joy is not to wait until you
feel happy, but to rise, by an act of
faith, out of the depression which is
dragging you down, and begin to
praise God as an act of choice. This is the
meaning of such passages as these: <q>Rejoice
in the Lord alway, and again I say, rejoice</q>;
<q>I do rejoice; yes, and I will rejoice.</q> <q>Count
it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations.</q>
In all these cases there is an evident struggle
with sadness and then the triumphs of faith
and praise.
</p>

<p>
Now, this is what is meant&mdash;in part, at least&mdash;by
the sacrifice of praise. A sacrifice is that
which costs us something. And when a man
or woman has some cherished grudge or wrong
and is harboring it, nursing it, dwelling on it,
rolling it as a sweet morsel under the tongue,
and quite determined to enjoy a miserable time
in selfish morbidness and grumbling, it costs us
no little sacrifice to throw off the morbid spell,
to refuse the suggestions of injury, neglect and
the remembrance of unkindness, to rise out of
the mood of self-commiseration in wholesome
and holy determination, and say, <q>I will rejoice
in the Lord</q>; I will <q>count it all joy.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='257'/><anchor id='Pg257'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 8.</head>

<p>
<q>He that eateth Me, even He shall live by Me</q>
(John vi. 57).
</p>

<p>
What the children of God need is not
merely a lot of teaching, but the
Living Bread. The best wheat is
not good food. It needs to be
ground and baked before it can be digested and
assimilated so as to nourish the system. The
purest and the highest truth cannot sanctify or
satisfy a living soul.
</p>

<p>
He breathes the New Testament message
from His mouth with a kiss of love and a
breath of quickening power. It is as we abide
in Him, lying upon His bosom and drinking in
His very life that we are nourished, quickened,
comforted and healed.
</p>

<p>
This is the secret of Divine healing. It is
not believing a doctrine, it is not performing
a ceremony, it is not wringing a petition from
the heavens by the logic of faith and the force
of your will; but it is the inbreathing of
the life of God; it is the living touch which
none can understand except those whose
senses are exercised to know the realities of
the world unseen. Often, therefore, a very
little truth will bring us much more help
and blessing than a great amount of instruction.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='258'/><anchor id='Pg258'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 9.</head>

<p>
<q>All things are lawful for Me</q> (I. Cor. x. 23).
</p>

<p>
I may be perfectly free myself to do
many things, the doing of which might
hurt my brother and wound his conscience,
and love will gladly surrender
the little indulgence, that she may save her
brother from temptation. There are many questions
which are easily settled by this principle.
</p>

<p>
So there are many forms of recreation which,
in themselves might be harmless, and, under
certain circumstances, unobjectionable, but
they have become associated with worldliness
and godlessness, and have proved snares and
temptations to many a young heart and life;
and, therefore, the law of love would lead you
to avoid them, discountenance them, and in no
way give encouragement to others to participate
in them.
</p>

<p>
It is just in these things that are not required
of us by absolute rules, but are the impulses
of a thoughtful love, that the highest
qualities of Christian character show themselves,
and the most delicate shades of Christian
love are manifested.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='259'/><anchor id='Pg259'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 10.</head>

<p>
<q>Wherefore, receive ye one another as Christ also
received us, to the glory of God</q> (Rom. xv. 7).
</p>

<p>
This is a sublime principle, and it will
give sublimity to life. It is stated elsewhere
in similar language, <q>Whatsoever
ye do in word or deed, do all in
the name of the Lord Jesus.</q>
</p>

<p>
This is our high calling, to represent Christ,
and act in His behalf, and in His character and
spirit, under all circumstances and toward all
men. <q>What would Jesus do?</q> is a simple
question which will settle every difficulty, and
always settle it on the side of love.
</p>

<p>
But we cannot answer this question rightly
without having Jesus Himself in our hearts.
We cannot <emph>act</emph> Christ. This is too grave a
matter for acting. We must <emph>have</emph> Christ, and
simply be natural and true to the life within
us, and that life will act itself out.
</p>

<p>
Oh, how easy it is to love every one, and see
nothing but loveliness when our heart is filled
with Christ, and how every difficulty melts
away and every one we meet seems clothed
with the Spirit within us when we are filled
with the Holy Ghost!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='260'/><anchor id='Pg260'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 11.</head>

<p>
<q>Lo, I am with you all the days, even unto the end
of the age</q> (Matt. xxviii. 20).
</p>

<p>
It is <q>all the days,</q> not <q>always.</q> He
comes to you each day with a new blessing.
Every morning, day by day, He
walks with us, with a love that never
tires and a blessing that never grows old. And
He is with us <q>all the days</q>; it is a ceaseless
abiding. There is no day so dark, so commonplace,
so uninteresting, but you find Him there.
Often, no doubt, He is unrecognized, as He
was on the way to Emmaus, until you realize
how your heart has been warmed, your love
stirred, your Bible so strangely vivified, and
every promise seems to speak to you with
heavenly reality and power. It is the Lord!
God grant that His living presence may be
made more real to us all henceforth, and whether
we have the consciousness and evidence, as
they had a few glorious times in those forty
days, or whether we go forth into the coming
days, as they did most of their days, to walk by
simple faith and in simple duty, let us know at
least that the fact is true forevermore, THAT
HE IS WITH US, a Presence all unseen, but
real, and ready if we needed Him any moment
to manifest Himself for our relief.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='261'/><anchor id='Pg261'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 12.</head>

<p>
<q>The furnace for gold; but the Lord trieth the
hearts</q> (Prov. xvii. 3.)
</p>

<p>
Remember that temptation is not sin
unless it be accompanied with the consent
of your will. There may seem to
be even the inclination, and yet the
real choice of your spirit is fixed immovably
against it, and God regards it simply as a solicitation
and credits you with an obedience all the
more pleasing to Him, because the temptation
was so strong.
</p>

<p>
We little know how evil can find access to a
pure nature and seem to incorporate itself with
our thoughts and feelings, while at the same
time we resist and overcome it, and remain as
pure as the sea-fowl that emerges from the water
without a single drop remaining upon its
burnished wing, or as the harp string, which
may be struck by a rude or clumsy hand and
gives forth a discordant sound, not from any
defect of the harp, but because of the hand that
touches it. But let the Master hand play
upon it, and it is a chord of melody and a note
of exquisite delight.
</p>

<p>
<q>In nothing terrified by your adversaries
which is to you an evident token of salvation
and that of God.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='262'/><anchor id='Pg262'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which
is to try you</q> (I. Peter xii. 16).
</p>

<p>
Most persons after a step of faith are
looking for sunny skies and unruffled
seas, and when they meet a
storm and tempest they are filled
with astonishment and perplexity. But this is
just what we must expect to meet if we have
received anything of the Lord. The best token
of His presence is the adversary's defiance,
and the more real our blessing, the more certainly
it will be challenged. It is a good thing
to go out looking for the worst, and if it comes
we are not surprised; while if our path be
smooth and our way be unopposed, it is all the
more delightful, because it comes as a glad
surprise.
</p>

<p>
But let us quite understand what we mean
by temptation. You, especially, who have
stepped out with the assurance that you have
died to self and sin, may be greatly amazed to
find yourself assailed with a tempest of
thoughts and feelings that seem to come wholly
from within and you will be impelled to
say, <q>Why, I thought I was dead, but I seem to
be alive.</q> This, beloved, is the time to remember
that temptation, the instigation, is not sin,
but only of the evil one.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='263'/><anchor id='Pg263'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 14.</head>

<p>
<q>For the Lord God will help me, therefore shall I not
be confounded; therefore, have I set my face like a
flint, and I know I shall not be ashamed</q> (Isa. l. 7).
</p>

<p>
This is the language of trust and victory,
and it was through this faith, as
we are told in a passage in Hebrews,
that in His last agony, <q>Jesus, for the
joy that was set before Him, endured the cross,
despising the shame.</q> His life was a life of
faith, His death was a victory of faith, His
resurrection was a triumph of faith, His mediatorial
reign is all one long victory of faith,
<q>From henceforth expecting till all His enemies
be made His footstool.</q>
</p>

<p>
And so, for us He has become the pattern
of faith, and in every situation of difficulty,
temptation and distress has gone before us
waving the banner of trust and triumph, and
bidding us to follow in His victorious footsteps.
</p>

<p>
He is the great Pattern Believer. While we
must claim our salvation by faith, the Great
Forerunner also claimed the world's salvation
by the same faith.
</p>

<p>
Let us therefore consider this glorious
Leader our perfect example, and as we follow
close behind Him, let us remember
where He has triumphed we may triumph,
too.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='264'/><anchor id='Pg264'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 15.</head>

<p>
<q>Though it tarry, wait for it, for it will surely
come, and will not tarry</q> (Hab. ii. 3).
</p>

<p>
Some things have their cycle in an hour
and some in a century; but His plans
shall complete their cycle whether long
or short. The tender annual which
blossoms for a season and dies, and the Columbian
aloe, which develops in a century, each is
true to its normal principle. Many of us desire
to pluck our fruit in June rather than wait
until October, and so, of course, it is sour and
immature; but God's purposes ripen slowly and
fully, and faith waits while it tarries, knowing
it will surely come and will not tarry too long.
</p>

<p>
It is perfect rest to fully learn and wholly
trust this glorious promise. We may know
without a question that His purposes shall be
accomplished when we have fully committed
our ways to Him, and are walking in watchful
obedience to His every prompting. This faith
will give a calm and tranquil poise to the
spirit and save us from the restless fret and
trying to do too much ourselves.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Wait, and every wrong will righten,</l>
<l>Wait, and every cloud will brighten,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>If you only wait.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='265'/><anchor id='Pg265'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 16.</head>

<p>
<q>I will never leave Thee nor forsake Thee</q> (Heb.
xiii. 5).
</p>

<p>
It is most cheering thus to know that although
we err and bring upon ourselves
many troubles that might have been
easily averted, yet God does not forsake
even His mistaken child, but on his humble repentance
and supplication is ever really both to
pardon and deliver. Let us not give up our
faith because we have perhaps stepped out of
the path in which He would have led us. The
Israelites did not follow when He called them
into the Land of Promise, yet God did not
desert them; but during the forty years of
their wandering He walked by their side bearing
their backsliding with patient compassion,
and waiting to be gracious unto them when
another generation should have come. <q>In all
their afflictions He was afflicted, but the Angel
of His presence saved them; He bare them and
carried them all the days of old.</q> And so yet,
while our wanderings bring us many sorrows
and lose us many blessings, to the heart which
truly chooses His, He has graciously said:
<q>I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='266'/><anchor id='Pg266'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 17.</head>

<p>
<q>Thy people shall be a freewill offering in the day
of Thy power</q> (Ps. cx. 3).
</p>

<p>
This is what the term consecration
properly means. It is the voluntary
surrender or self-offering of the heart,
by the constraint of love to be the
Lord's. Its glad expression is, <q>I am my Beloved's.</q>
It must spring, of course, from faith.
There must be the full confidence that we are
safe in this abandonment, that we are not falling
over a precipice, or surrendering ourselves
to the hands of a judge, but that we are sinking
into a Father's arms and stepping into an
infinite inheritance. Oh, it is an infinite inheritance.
Oh, it is an infinite privilege to be permitted
thus to give ourselves up to One who
pledges Himself to make us all that we would
love to be, nay, all that His infinite wisdom,
power and love will delight to accomplish in
us. It is the clay yielding itself to the potter's
hands that it may be shaped into a vessel
of honor, and meet for the Master's use.
It is the poor street waif consenting to become
the child of a prince that he may be educated
and provided for, that he may be prepared
to inherit all the wealth of his guardian.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='267'/><anchor id='Pg267'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 18.</head>

<p>
<q>We walk by faith, not by sight</q> (II. Cor. v. 7).
</p>

<p>
There are heavenly notes which have
power to break down walls of adamant
and dissolve mountains of difficulty.
The song of Paul and Silas burst the
fetters of the Philippian gaol; the choir of Jehoshaphat
put to flight the armies of the Ammonites,
and the song of faith will disperse our
adversaries and lift our sinking hearts into
strength and victory. Beloved, is it the dark
hour with us? the winter of barrenness and
gloom? Oh, let us remember that it is God's
chosen time for the education of faith and that
He conceals beneath the surface, precious and
untold harvests of unthought-of fruit! It will
not be always winter, it will not be always
night, and when the morning comes and spring
spreads its verdant mantle over the barren
fields then we shall be glad that we did not disappoint
our Father in the hour of testing, but
that faith had already claimed and seen in the
distance the glad fruition which sight now beholds,
with a rapture even less than the vision
of naked faith.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me to believe when I cannot see,
and learn from my trials to trust Thee more.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='268'/><anchor id='Pg268'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 19.</head>

<p>
<q>In due season we shall reap if we faint not</q> (Gal. vi. 9).
</p>

<p>
If the least of us could only anticipate the
eternal issues that will probably spring
from the humblest services of faith, we
should only count our sacrifices and labors
unspeakable heritages of honor and opportunity,
and would cease to speak of trials
and sacrifices for God.
</p>

<p>
The smallest grain of faith is a deathless and
incorruptible germ, which will yet plant the
heavens and cover the earth with harvests of
imperishable glory. Lift up your head, beloved,
the horizon is wider than the little circle
that you can see. We are living, we are
suffering, we are laboring, we are trusting, for
the ages yet to come. <q>Let us not be weary in
well doing for in due season we shall reap if we
faint not,</q> and with tears of transport we shall
cry some day, <q>Oh, how great is thy goodness
which Thou hast laid up for them that fear
Thee, which Thou hast wrought for them that
trust in Thee before the sons of men.</q>
</p>

<p>
Help me to-day to live under the powers of
the world to come, and to live as a man in
heaven walking upon the earth.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='269'/><anchor id='Pg269'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 20.</head>

<p>
<q>They shall not be ashamed that wait</q> (Isa. xlix. 23).
</p>

<p>
Often He calls us aside from our work
for a season and bids us be still and
learn ere we go forth again to minister.
Especially is this so when there
has been some serious break, some sudden failure
and some radical defect in our work. There
is no time lost in such waiting hours. Fleeing
from his enemies the ancient knight found that
his horse needed to be reshod. Prudence
seemed to urge him without delay, but higher
wisdom taught him to halt a few minutes at the
blacksmith's forge by the way to have the shoe
replaced, and although he heard the feet of his
pursuers galloping hard behind, yet he waited
those minutes until his charger was refitted for
his flight, and then, leaping into his saddle just
as they appeared a hundred yards away, he
dashed away from them with the fleetness of
the wind, and knew that his halting had hastened
his escape. So often God bids us tarry
ere we go, and fully recover ourselves for the
next great stage of the journey and work.
</p>

<p>
Lord, teach me to be still and know that
Thou art God and all this day to walk with God.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='270'/><anchor id='Pg270'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Faint, yet pursuing</q> (Judges viii. 4).
</p>

<p>
It is a great thing thus to learn to depend
upon God to work through our feeble resources,
and yet, while so depending, to
be absolutely faithful and diligent, and
not allow our trust to deteriorate into supineness
and indolence. We find no sloth or negligence
in Gideon, or his three hundred; though
they were weak and few, they were wholly
true, and everything in them ready for God to
use to the very last. <q>Faint yet pursuing</q> was
their watchword as they followed and finished
their glorious victory, and they rested not until
the last of their enemies were destroyed, and
even their false friends were punished for their
treachery and unfaithfulness.
</p>

<p>
So God still calls the weakest instruments,
but when He chooses and enables them they
are no longer weak, but <q>mighty through
God,</q> and faithful through His grace to every
trust and opportunity; <q>trusting,</q> as Dr. Chalmers
used to say, <q>as though all depended upon
God, and working as though all depended upon
themselves.</q>
</p>

<p>
Teach me, my blessed Master, to trust and
obey.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='271'/><anchor id='Pg271'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 22.</head>

<p>
<q>We see not yet all things put under Him, but we
see Jesus</q> (Heb. ii. 8, 9).
</p>

<p>
How true this is to us all! How many
things there are that seem to be
stronger than we are, but blessed be
His name! they are all in subjection
under Him, and we see Jesus crowned above
them all; and Jesus is our Head, our representative,
our other self, and where He is we shall
surely be. Therefore when we fail to see anything
that God has promised, and that we have
claimed in our experience, let us look up and
see it realized in Him, and claim it in Him
for ourselves. Our side is only half the circle,
the heaven side is already complete, and
the rainbow of which we see not the upper
half, shall one day be all around the
throne and take in the other hemisphere of
all our now unfinished life. By faith, then,
let us enter into all our inheritance. Let us
lift up our eyes to the north and to the
south, to the east and to the west, and hear
Him say, <q>All the land that thou seest will
I give thee.</q> Let us remember that the circle,
is complete, that the inheritance is unlimited,
and that all things are put under His
feet.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='272'/><anchor id='Pg272'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 23.</head>

<p>
<q>I am the Lord that healeth thee</q> (Ex. xv. 26).
</p>

<p>
It is very reasonable that God should expect
us to trust Him for our bodies as
well as our souls, for if our faith is not
practical enough to bring us temporal
relief, how can we be educated for real dependence
upon God for anything that involves serious
risk? It is all very well to talk about
trusting God for the distant and future prospect
of salvation after death! There is scarcely
a sinner in a Christian land that does not trust
to be saved some day, but there is no grasp in
faith like this. It is only when we come face
to face with positive issues and overwhelming
forces that we can prove the reality of Divine
power in a supernatural life. Hence as an education
to our very spirits as well as a gracious
provision for our temporal life, God has
trained His people from the beginning to recognize
Him as the supply of all their needs, and
to look to Him as the Physician of their bodies
and Father of their spirits. Beloved, have you
learned the meaning of Jehovah-rophi, and has
it changed your Marah of trial into an Elim of
blessing and praise?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='273'/><anchor id='Pg273'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 24.</head>

<p>
<q>He calleth things that are not as though they
were</q> (Rom. iv. 17).
</p>

<p>
The Word of God creates what it commands.
When Christ says to any of us
<q>Now are ye clean through the word
which I have spoken unto you,</q> We
are clean. When He says <q>no condemnation</q>
there is none, though there has been a lifetime
of sin before. And when He says, <q>mighty
through God to the pulling down of strongholds,</q>
then the weak are strong. This is the
part of faith, to take God at His Word, and
then expect Him to make it real. A French
commander thanked a common soldier who
had saved his life and called him captain, although
he was but a private, but the man took
the commander at his word, accepted the new
name and was thereby constituted indeed a
captain.
</p>

<p>
Shall we thus take God's creating word of
justification, sanctification, power and deliverance
and thus make real the mighty promise,
<q>He giveth power to the faint, and to them that
have no might He increaseth strength; for they
that wait on the Lord shall renew their
strength.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='274'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 25.</head>

<p>
<q>The faith of the Son of God</q> (Gal. ii. 20).
</p>

<p>
Let us learn the secret even of our faith.
It is the faith of Christ, springing in
our heart and trusting in our trials.
So shall we always sing, <q>The life that
I now live I live by the faith of the Son of
God, who loved me and gave Himself for me.</q>
Thus looking off unto Jesus, <q>the Author and
Finisher of our faith,</q> we shall find that instead
of struggling to reach the promises of God, we
shall lie down upon them in blessed repose and
be borne up by them with the faith which is
no more our own than the promises upon which
it rests. Each new need will find us leaning
afresh on Him for the grace to trust and to
overcome.
</p>

<p>
Further we see here the true spirit of prayer.
It is the Spirit of Christ in us. <q>In the midst
of the church will I sing praises unto thee.</q>
Christ still sings these praises in the trusting
heart and lifts our prayers into songs of victory!
This is the true spirit of prayer, like
Paul and Silas in the prison at Philippi, turning
prayer into praise, night into day, the night
of sorrow into the morning of joy, and when
He is in us, the spirit of faith, He will also become
the spirit of praise.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='275'/><anchor id='Pg275'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 26.</head>

<p>
<q>I will be with Him in trouble</q> (Ps. xci. 15).
</p>

<p>
The question often comes, <q>Why didn't
He help me sooner!</q> It is not His
order. He must first adjust you to the
situation and cause you to learn your
lesson from it. His promise is, <q>I will be with
him in trouble; I will deliver him and honor
him.</q> He must be with you in the trouble
first until you grow quiet. Then He will take
you out of it. This will not come till you have
stopped being restless and fretful about it and
become calm and trustful. Then He will say,
<q>It is enough.</q>
</p>

<p>
God uses trouble to teach His children precious
lessons. They are intended to educate
us. When their good work is done a glorious
recompense will come to us through them.
There is a sweet joy and opportunity in them.
He does not regard them as difficulties but as
opportunities. They have come to give
God a greater interest in you, and to show
how He can deliver you from them. We
cannot have a mercy worth praising God for
without difficulty. God is as deep, and
long, and high, as our little world of circumstances.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='276'/><anchor id='Pg276'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 27.</head>

<p>
<q>The glorious liberty of the children of God</q>
(Rom. viii. 21).
</p>

<p>
Are you above self and self-pleasing in
every way? Have you got above circumstances
so that you are not influenced
by them? Are you above sickness
and the evil forces around that would
drag down your physical life into the quicksands?
These forces are all around, and if
yielded to would quickly swamp us. God does
not destroy sickness, or its power to hurt, but
He lifts us above it. Are you above your feelings,
moods, emotions and states? Can you
sail immovable as the stars through all sorts
of weather? A harp will give out sweet music
or discordant sounds as different fingers touch
the strings. If the devil's hand is on your harp
strings what hideous sounds it will give. Let
the fingers of the Lord sweep it, and it will
breathe out celestial music. Are you lifted
above people, so that you are not bound by or
to any one except in the dear Lord, and are
you standing free in His glorious life?
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>I am risen with Christ, I am dwelling above;</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I am walking with Jesus below,</l>
<l>I am shedding the light of His glory and love</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q rend='post'>Around me wherever I go.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='277'/><anchor id='Pg277'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 28.</head>

<p>
<q>The trial of your faith being much more precious
than gold</q> (I. Peter i. 7).
</p>

<p>
Our trials are great opportunities. Too
often we look on them as great obstacles.
It would be a heaven of rest
and an inspiration of unspeakable
power if each of us would henceforth recognize
every difficult situation as one of God's
chosen ways of proving to us His love and
power, and if instead of calculating upon defeat
we should begin to look around for the
messages of His glorious manifestations. Then
indeed would every cloud become a rainbow,
and every mountain a path of ascension and a
scene of transfiguration. If we will look upon
the past, many of us will find that the very
time our heavenly Father has chosen to do
the kindest things for us and give us the richest
blessings has been the time when we were
strained and shut in on every side. God's jewels
are often sent us in rough packages and by
dark liveried servants, but within we find the
very treasures of the King's palace and the
Bridegroom's Love.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Fire of God, thy work begin,</l>
<l>Burn up the dross of self and sin;</l>
<l>Burn off my fetters, set me free,</l>
<l>And through the furnace walk with me.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='278'/><anchor id='Pg278'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 29.</head>

<p>
<q>Call not thou common</q> (Acts x. 15).
</p>

<p>
<q>There is nothing common of itself</q> (Rom. xiv. 14).
</p>

<p>
We can bring Christ into common
things as fully as into what we call
religious services. Indeed, it is the
highest and hardest application of
Divine grace, to bring it down to the ordinary
matters of life, and therefore God is far more
honored in this than even in things that are
more specially sacred.
</p>

<p>
Therefore, in the twelfth chapter of Romans,
which is the manual of practical consecration,
just after the passage that speaks of ministering
in sacred things, the apostle comes at once
to the common, social and secular affairs into
which we are to bring our consecration
principles. We read: <q>Be kindly affectioned
one to another with brotherly love; in honor
preferring one another; not slothful in
business; fervent in spirit; serving the
Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
God wants the Levites scattered all over the
cities of Israel. He wants your workshop, factory,
kitchen, nursery, editor's room and printing-office,
as much as your pulpit and closet.
He wants you to be just as holy at high noon
on Monday or Wednesday, as in the sanctuary
on Sabbath morning.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='279'/><anchor id='Pg279'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September 30.</head>

<p>
<q>In the secret places of the stairs</q> (Song of Solomon ii. 14).
</p>

<p>
The dove is in the cleft of the rock&mdash;the
riven side of our Lord. There is comfort
and security there. It is also in
the secret places of the stairs. It loves
to build its nest in the high towers to which
men mount the winding stairs for hundreds of
feet above the ground. What a glorious vision
is there obtained of the surrounding scenery.
It is a picture of ascending life. To reach its
highest altitudes we must find the secret places
of the stairs. That is the only way to rise
above the natural plane. Our life should be
one of quiet mounting with occasional resting
places; but we should be mounting higher step
by step. Everybody does not find this way of
secret ascent. It is for God's chosen ones. The
world may think you are going down. You
may not have as much public work to do as
formerly. <q>Blessed are the poor in spirit.</q>
It is a secret, hidden life. We may be hardly
aware that we are growing, till some day a
test comes and we find we are established.
Have you got above the power of sin so that
Christ is keeping you from wilful disobedience?
Does it give you a shudder to know the consciousness
of sin? Are you lifted above the world?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='280'/><anchor id='Pg280'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 1.</head>

<p>
<q>That in the ages to come He might show the exceeding
riches of His grace</q> (Eph. ii. 7).
</p>

<p>
Christ's great purpose for His people
is to train them up to know the
hope of their calling, and the riches of
the glory of their inheritance and what
the exceeding greatness of His power toward
us who believe.
</p>

<p>
Let us prove, in all our varied walks of life,
and scenes of conflict, the fulness of His power
and grace and thus shall we know <q>In the ages
to come the exceeding riches of His grace in
His kindness to us in Jesus Christ.</q>
</p>

<p>
Beloved, are you thus following your Teacher
in the school of faith, and finishing the education
which is by and by to fit you for <q>a far
more exceeding and eternal weight of glory</q>?
This is only the School of Faith.
</p>

<p>
Little can we now dream what these lessons
will mean for us some day, when sitting with
Him on His throne and sharing with Him the
power of God and the government of the universe.
Let us be faithful scholars now and
soon with Him, we too, will have <q>endured the
cross despising the shame,</q> and shall <q>sit
down at the right hand of the throne of God.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='281'/><anchor id='Pg281'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 2.</head>

<p>
<q>Moses gave not any inheritance; the Lord God
of Israel was their inheritance, as He said unto
them</q> (Josh. xiii. 33).
</p>

<p>
This is very significant. God gave the
land to the other tribes but He gave
Himself to the Levites. There is such
a thing in Christian life as an inheritance
from the Lord, and there is such a thing
as having the Lord Himself for our inheritance.
</p>

<p>
Some people get a sanctification from the
Lord which is of much value, but which is variable,
and often impermanent. Others have
learned the higher lesson of taking the Lord
Himself to be their keeper and their sanctity,
and abiding in Him they are kept above the
vicissitudes of their own states and feelings.
</p>

<p>
Some get from the Lord large measures of
joy and blessing, and times of refreshing.
</p>

<p>
Others, again, learn to take the Lord Himself
as their joy.
</p>

<p>
Some people are content to have peace with
God, but others have taken <q>the peace of God
that passeth all understanding.</q>
</p>

<p>
Some have faith <emph>in</emph> God, while others have
the faith <emph>of</emph> God. Some have many touches of
healing from God, others, again, have learned
to live in the very health of God Himself.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='282'/><anchor id='Pg282'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 3.</head>

<p>
<q>The little foxes that spoil the vines</q> (Song of Solomon,
ii. 15).
</p>

<p>
There are some things good, without
being perfect. You don't need to have
a whole regiment cannonading outside
your room to keep you awake. It is
quite enough that your little alarm clock rings
its little bell. It is not necessary to fret about
everything; it is quite enough if the devil gets
your mind rasped with one little worry, one
little thought which destroys your perfect
peace. It is like the polish on a mirror, or an
exquisite toilet table, one scratch will destroy
it; and the finer it is the smaller the scratch
that will deface it. And so your rest can be
destroyed by a very little thing. Perhaps you
have trusted in God about your future salvation;
but have you about your present business
or earthly cares, your money and your family?
</p>

<p>
What is meant by the peace that passeth all
understanding? It does not mean a peace no
one can comprehend. It means a peace that
no amount of reasoning will bring. You cannot
get it by thinking. There may be perfect
bewilderment and perplexity all round the horizon,
but yet your heart can rest in perfect security
because He knows, He loves, He leads.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='283'/><anchor id='Pg283'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Instead of the brier, the myrtle tree</q> (Isa. lv. 13).
</p>

<p>
God's sweetest memorial is the transformed
thorn and the thistle blooming
with flowers of peace and sweetness,
where once grew recriminations.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, God is waiting to make just such
memorials in your life, out of the things that
are hurting you most to-day. Take the grievances,
the separations, the strained friendships
and the broken ties which have been the sorrow
and heartbreak of your life, and let God heal
them, and give you grace to make you right
with all with whom you may be wrong, and
you will wonder at the joy and blessing that
will come out of the things that have caused
you nothing but regret and pain.
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall
be called the children of God.</q> The everlasting
employment of our blessed Redeemer is to
reconcile the guilty and the estranged from
God, and the highest and most Christ-like work
that we can do is, to be like Him.
</p>

<p>
Shall we go forth to dry the tears of a sorrowing
world, to heal the broken-hearted, to
bind up the wounds of human lives, and to
unite heart to heart, and earth to heaven?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='284'/><anchor id='Pg284'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 5.</head>

<p>
<q>He hath triumphed gloriously</q> (Ex. xv. 1).
</p>

<p>
Beloved, God calls us to victory.
Have any of you given up the conflict,
have you surrendered? Have you
said, <q>This thing is too much</q>? Have
you said, <q>I can give up anything else but
this</q>? If you have, you are not in the land of
promise. God means you should accept every
difficult thing that comes in your life. He has
started with you, knowing every difficulty.
And if you dare to let Him, He will carry you
through not only to be conquerors, but <q>more
than conquerors.</q> Are you looking for all the
victory?
</p>

<p>
God gives His children strength for the battle
and watches over them with a fond enthusiasm.
He longs to fold you to His arms and
say to you, <q>I have seen thy conflict, I have
watched thy trials, I have rejoiced in thy victory;
thou hast honored Me.</q> You know He
told Joshua at the beginning, <q>There shall not
any man be able to stand before thee all the
days of thy life; as I was with Moses, so shall
I be with thee: I will not fail thee, nor forsake
thee.</q> And again, He says to us, <q>Fear thou
not, for I am with thee.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='285'/><anchor id='Pg285'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 6.</head>

<p>
<q>Ephraim, he hath mixed himself</q> (Hos. vii. 8).
</p>

<p>
It is a great thing to learn to take God
first, and then He can afford to give us
everything else, without the fear of its
hurting us.
</p>

<p>
As long as you want anything very much, especially
more than you want God, it is an idol.
But when you become satisfied with God,
everything else so loses its charm that He can
give it to you without harm, and then you can
take just as much as you choose, and use it for
His glory.
</p>

<p>
There is no harm whatever in having money,
houses, lands, friends and dearest children, if
you do not value these things for themselves.
</p>

<p>
If you have been separated from them in
spirit, and become satisfied with God Himself,
then they will become to you channels to be
filled with God to bring Him nearer to you.
Then every little lamb around your household
will be a tender cord to bind you to the Shepherd's
heart. Then every affection will be a
little golden cup filled with the wine of His
love. Then every bank, stock and investment
will be but a channel through which you can
pour out His benevolence and extend His gifts.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='286'/><anchor id='Pg286'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 7.</head>

<p>
<q>He opened not His mouth</q> (Isa. liii. 7).
</p>

<p>
How much grace it requires to bear a
misunderstanding rightly, and to receive
an unkind judgment in holy
sweetness! Nothing tests a Christian
character more than to have some evil thing
said about him. This is the file that soon
proves whether we are electro-plate or solid
gold. If we could only know the blessings that
lie hidden in our lives, we would say, like David,
when Shimei cursed him, <q>Let him curse;
it may be the Lord will requite me good for
his cursing this day.</q>
</p>

<p>
Some people get easily turned aside from the
grandeur of their life-work by pursuing their
own grievances and enemies, until their life
gets turned into one little petty whirl of warfare.
It is like a nest of hornets. You may
disperse the hornets, but you will probably
get terribly stung, and get nothing for
your pains, for even their honey is not worth
a search.
</p>

<p>
God give us more of His Spirit, who, when
reviled, reviled not again; but committed Himself
to Him that judgeth righteously.
</p>

<p>
Consider Him that endured such contradiction
of sinners against Himself.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='287'/><anchor id='Pg287'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 8.</head>

<p>
<q>There failed not aught of any good thing which the
Lord had spoken</q> (Josh. xxi. 45).
</p>

<p>
Some day, even you, trembling, faltering
one, shall stand upon those heights
and look back upon all you have passed
through, all you have narrowly escaped,
all the perils through which He guided
you, the stumblings through which He guarded
you, and the sins from which He saved you;
and you shall shout, with a meaning you cannot
understand now, <q>Salvation unto Him who sitteth
upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.</q>
</p>

<p>
Some day He will sit down with us in that
glorious home, and we shall have all the ages
in which to understand the story of our lives.
And He will read over again this old marked
Bible with us, He will show us how He kept
all these promises, He will explain to us the
mysteries that we could not understand, He
will recall to our memory the things we have
long forgotten, He will go over again with us
the book of life, He will recall all the finished
story, and I am sure we will often cry: <q>Blessed
Christ! you have been so true, you have been
so good! Was there ever love like this?</q> And
then the great chorus will be repeated once
more&mdash;<q>There failed not aught of any good
thing that He hath spoken; all came to pass.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='288'/><anchor id='Pg288'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 9.</head>

<p>
<q>Peace be unto you</q> (John xx. 19, 21).
</p>

<p>
This is the type of His first appearing to
our hearts when He comes to bring us
His peace and to teach us to trust Him
and love Him.
</p>

<p>
But there is a second peace which He has to
give. Jesus said unto them again, <q>Peace be
unto you.</q> There is a <q>peace,</q> and there is
an <q>again peace.</q> There is a peace with God,
and there is <q>the peace of God that passeth understanding.</q>
It is the deeper peace that we
need before we can serve Him or be used for
His glory.
</p>

<p>
While we are burdened with our own cares,
He cannot give us His. While we are occupied
with ourselves, we cannot be at leisure to serve
Him. Our minds will be so filled with our own
anxieties that we would not be equal to the
trust which He requires of us, and so, before
He can entrust us with His work, He wants to
deliver us from every burden and anxiety.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Peace, perfect peace, in this dark world of sin,</q></l>
<l>The blood of Jesus whispers peace within.</l>
<l>Peace, perfect peace, by thronging duties pressed,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>To do the will of Jesus, this is rest.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='289'/><anchor id='Pg289'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 10.</head>

<p>
<q>If ye, through the Spirit, do mortify the deeds of
the body, ye shall live</q> (Rom. viii. 13).
</p>

<p>
The Holy Spirit is the only one who can
kill us and keep us dead. Many Christians
try to do this disagreeable work
themselves, and they are going through
a continual crucifixion, but they can never accomplish
the work permanently. This is the
work of the Holy Spirit, and when you really
yield yourself to the death, it is delightful to
find how sweetly He can slay you.
</p>

<p>
By the touch of the electric spark they tell
us life is extinguished almost without a quiver
of pain. But, however this may be in natural
things, we know the Holy Spirit can touch
with celestial fire the surrendered thing, and
slay it in a moment, after it is really yielded
up to the sentence of death. That is our business,
and it is God's business to execute that
sentence, and to keep it constantly operative.
</p>

<p>
Don't let us live in the pain of perpetual and
ineffectual suicide, but reckoning ourselves
dead indeed, let us leave ourselves in the hands
of the blessed Holy Spirit, and He will slay
whatever rises in opposition to His will, and
keep us true to our heavenly reckoning, and
filled with His resurrection life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='290'/><anchor id='Pg290'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 11.</head>

<p>
<q>And He that searcheth the hearts knoweth what
is the mind of the Spirit, because He maketh intercession
for the saints according to the will of God</q>
(Rom. viii. 27).
</p>

<p>
The Holy Spirit becomes to the consecrated
heart the Spirit of intercession.
We have two Advocates. We have an
Advocate with the Father, who prays
for us at God's right hand; but the Holy Spirit
is the Advocate within, who prays in us, inspiring
our petitions and presenting them, through
Christ, to God.
</p>

<p>
We need this Advocate. We know not what
to pray for, and we know not how to pray as
we ought, but He breathes in the holy heart
the desires that we may not always understand,
the groanings which we could not utter.
</p>

<p>
But God understands, and He, with a loving
Father's heart, is always searching our hearts
to find the Spirit's prayer, and to answer it.
He finds many a prayer there that we have not
discovered, and answers many a cry that we
never understood. And when we reach our
home and read the records of life, we shall better
know and appreciate the infinite love of
that Divine Friend, who has watched within
as the Spirit of prayer, and breathed out our
every need to the heart of God.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='291'/><anchor id='Pg291'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 12.</head>

<p>
<q>The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath
made me free</q> (Rom. viii. 2).
</p>

<p>
The life of Jesus Christ brought into our
heart by the Holy Spirit, operates
there as a new law of divine strength
and vitality, and counteracts, overcomes
and lifts us above the old law of sin and
death.
</p>

<p>
Let us illustrate these two laws by a simple
comparison. Look at my hand. By the law of
gravitation it naturally falls upon the desk and
lies there, attracted downward by that natural
law which makes heavy bodies fall to the
earth.
</p>

<p>
But there is a stronger law than the law of
gravitation&mdash;my own life and will. And so
through the operation of this higher law&mdash;the
law of vitality&mdash;I defy the law of gravitation,
and lift my hand and hold it above its former
resting-place, and move it at my will. The law
of vitality has made me free from the law of
gravitation.
</p>

<p>
Precisely so the indwelling life of Christ Jesus,
operating with the power of a law, lifts
me above, and counteracts the power of sin in
my fallen nature.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='292'/><anchor id='Pg292'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 13.</head>

<p>
<q>The carnal mind is enmity against God</q> (Rom. viii. 7).
</p>

<p>
The flesh is incurably bad. <q>It is not
subject to the law of God, neither, indeed,
can be.</q> It never can be any
better. It is no use trying to improve
the flesh. You may educate it all you please.
You may train it by the most approved methods,
you may set before it the brightest examples,
you may pipe to it or mourn to it, treat it
with encouragement or severity; its nature will
always be incorrigibly the same.
</p>

<p>
Like the wild hawk which the little child
captures in its infancy and tries to train in the
habits of the dove, before you are aware it will
fasten its cruel beak upon the gentle fingers
that would caress it, and show the old wild
spirit of fear and ferocity. It is a hawk by
nature, and it can never be made a dove. <q>For
the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is
not subject to the law of God, neither, indeed,
can be.</q>
</p>

<p>
The only remedy for human nature is to destroy
it, and receive instead the divine nature.
God does not improve man. He crucifies the
natural life with Christ, and creates the new
man in Christ Jesus.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='293'/><anchor id='Pg293'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 14.</head>

<p>
<q>Get thee, behind me, Satan</q> (Matt. xvi. 23).
</p>

<p>
When your old self comes back, if you
listen to it, fear it, believe it, it will
have the same influence upon you as
if it were not dead; it will control
you and destroy you. But if you will ignore
it and say: <q>You are not I, but Satan trying
to make me believe that the old self is not
dead; I refuse you, I treat you as a demon
power outside of me, I detach myself from
you</q>; if you treat it as a wife would her divorced
husband, saying: <q>You are nothing to
me, you have no power over me, I have renounced
you, in the name of Jesus I bid you
hence,</q>&mdash;lo! the evil thing will disappear, the
shadow will vanish, the wand of faith will lay
the troubled spirit, and send it back to the
abyss, and you will find that Christ is there
instead, with His risen life, to back up your
confidence and seal your victory.
</p>

<p>
Satan can stand anything better than neglect.
If you ignore him he gets disgusted and
disappears. Jesus used to turn His back upon
him and say, <q>Get thee behind Me, Satan.</q> So
let us refuse him, and we shall find that he will
be compelled to act according to our faith.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='294'/><anchor id='Pg294'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 15.</head>

<p>
<q>Faith is the evidence of things not seen</q> (Heb. xi. 1).
</p>

<p>
True faith drops its letter in the post-office
box, and lets it go. Distrust
holds on to a corner of it, and wonders
that the answer never comes.
</p>

<p>
I have some letters in my desk that have
been written for weeks, but there was some
slight uncertainty about the address or the
contents, so they are yet unmailed. They
have not done either me or anybody else
any good yet. They will never accomplish
anything until I let them go out of my
hands and trust them to the postman and the
mail.
</p>

<p>
This is the case with true faith. It hands
its case over to God, and then He works.
</p>

<p>
That is a fine verse in the thirty-seventh
Psalm: <q>Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust
also in Him, and He worketh.</q> But He never
worketh until we commit.
</p>

<p>
Faith is a receiving, or still better, a taking
of God's proffered gifts. We may believe, and
come, and commit, and rest, but we will not
fully realize all our blessing until we begin to
receive and come into the attitude of abiding and
taking.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='295'/><anchor id='Pg295'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 16.</head>

<p>
<q>Whereas thou hast been forsaken and hated, I will
make thee a joy</q> (Isa. lx. 15).
</p>

<p>
God loves to take the most lost of men,
and make them the most magnificent
memorials of His redeeming love and
power. He loves to take the victims
of Satan's hate, and the lives that have been
the most fearful examples of his power to destroy,
and to use them to illustrate and illuminate
the possibilities of Divine mercy and the
new creations of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
He loves to take the things in our own lives
that have been the worst, the hardest and the
most hostile to God, and to transform them so
that we shall be the opposites of our former
selves.
</p>

<p>
The sweetest spirits are made out of the
most stormy and self-willed, the mightiest faith
is created out of a wilderness of doubts and
fears, and the Divinest love is transformed out
of stony hearts of hate and selfishness.
</p>

<p>
The grace of God is equal to the most uncongenial
temperaments, to the most unfavorable
circumstances; and its glory is to transform a
curse into blessing, and show to men and
angels of ages yet to come, that <q>where sin
abounded, there grace did much more abound.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='296'/><anchor id='Pg296'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 17.</head>

<p>
<q>Abraham believed God</q> (Rom. iv. 3).
</p>

<p>
Abraham's faith reposed on God
Himself. He knew the God he was
dealing with. It was a personal confidence
in one whom he could utterly
trust.
</p>

<p>
The real secret of Abraham's whole life was
that he was the friend of God, and knew God
to be his great, good and faithful Friend, and,
taking Him at His word, he had stepped out
from all that he knew and loved, and gone forth
upon an unknown pathway with none but God.
</p>

<p>
Beloved, are we trusting not only in the word
of God, but have we learned to lean our whole
weight upon Himself, the God of infinite love
and power, our covenant God and everlasting
Friend?
</p>

<p>
We are told that Abraham glorified God by
this life of faith. The true way to glorify God
is to let the world see what He is, and what
He can do. God does not want us so much to
do things, as to let people see what He can do.
God is not looking for extraordinary characters
as His instruments, but He is looking for
humble instruments through whom He can be
honored throughout the ages.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='297'/><anchor id='Pg297'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 18.</head>

<p>
<q>All things are naked and open unto the eyes of
Him with whom we have to do</q> (Heb. iv. 13).
</p>

<p>
The literal translation of this phrase is,
all things are stripped and stunned.
This is the force of the Greek words.
The figure is that of an athlete in the
Coliseum who has fought his best in the arena,
and has at length fallen at the feet of his adversary,
disarmed and broken down in helplessness.
There he lies, unable to strike a blow, or
lift his arm. He is stripped and stunned, disarmed
and disabled, and there is nothing left
for him but to lie at the feet of his adversary
and throw up his arms for mercy.
</p>

<p>
Now this is the position that God wants to
bring us to, where we shall cease our struggles
and our attempts at self-defence or self-improvement,
and throw ourselves helplessly
upon the mercy of God. This is the sinner's
only hope, and when he thus lies at the feet of
mercy, Jesus is ready to lift him up and give
him that free salvation which is waiting for all.
</p>

<p>
This, too, is the greatest need of the Christian
seeking a deeper and higher life, to come
to a full realization of his nothingness and helplessness,
and to lie down, stripped and stunned
at the feet of Jesus.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='298'/><anchor id='Pg298'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 19.</head>

<p>
<q>Denying ungodliness</q> (Titus ii. 12).
</p>

<p>
Let us say, <q>No,</q> to the flesh, the world
and the love of self, and learn that
holy self-denial in which consists so
much of the life of obedience. Make
no provision for the flesh; give no recognition
to your lower life. Say <q>No</q> to everything
earthly and selfish. How very much of the life
of faith consists in simply denying ourselves.
</p>

<p>
We begin with one great <q>Yes,</q> to God, and
then we conclude with an eternal <q>No,</q> to ourselves,
the world, the flesh and the devil.
</p>

<p>
If you look at the ten commandments of the
Decalogue, you will find that nearly every one
of them is a <q>Thou shalt not.</q> If you read
the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians,
with its beautiful picture of love, you will find
that most of the characteristics of love are in
the negative, what love <q>does not, thinks not,
says not, is not.</q> And so you will find that the
largest part of the life of consecration is really
saying, <q>No.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>I am not my own,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I belong to Him.</l>
<l>I am His alone,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I belong to Him.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='299'/><anchor id='Pg299'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 20.</head>

<p>
<q>Let us not be weary in well-doing</q> (Gal. vi. 9).
</p>

<p>
If Paul could only know the consolation
and hope that he has ministered to the
countless generations who have marched
along the pathway from the cross to the
Kingdom above, he would be willing to go
through a thousand lives and a thousand
deaths such as he endured for the blessing that
has followed since his noble head rolled in the
dust by the Ostian gate of Rome.
</p>

<p>
And if the least of us could only anticipate
the eternal issues that will probably spring
from the humblest services of faith, we should
only count our sacrifices and labors unspeakable
heritages of honor and opportunity, and
would cease to speak of trials and sacrifices
made for God.
</p>

<p>
The smallest grain of faith is a deathless and
incorruptible germ, which will yet plant the
heavens and cover the earth with harvests of
imperishable glory. Lift up your head, beloved,
the horizon is wider than the little circle
that you can see. We are living, we are suffering,
we are laboring, we are trusting, for the
ages yet to come!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='300'/><anchor id='Pg300'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?</q> (Rom. viii. 35).
</p>

<p>
And then comes the triumphant answer,
after all the possible obstacles and
enemies have been mentioned one by
one, <q>Nay, in all these things we are
more than conquerors, through Him that loved
us.</q> Our trials will be turned to helps; our enemies
will be taken prisoners and made to fight
our battles. Like the weights on yonder clock,
which keep it going, our very difficulties will
prove incentives to faith and prayer, and occasions
for God becoming more real to us.
</p>

<p>
We shall get out of our troubles not only deliverance
but triumph, and in all these things
be even more than conquerors through Him
that loved us.
</p>

<p>
Our security depends not upon our unchanging
love, but on the love of God in Christ
Jesus toward us. It is not the clinging arms
of the babe on the mother's breast that keep
it from falling, but the strong arms of the
mother about it which will never let it go. He
has loved us with an everlasting love, and
although all else may change, yet He will
never leave us nor forsake us.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='301'/><anchor id='Pg301'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 22.</head>

<p>
<q>Touched with the feeling of our infirmities</q> (Heb. iv. 15).
</p>

<p>
Some of us know a little what it is to be
thrilled with a sense of the sufferings
of others, and sometimes, the sins of
others, and sins that seem to saturate
us as they come in contact with us, and throw
over us an awful sense of sin and need.
</p>

<p>
This is, perhaps, intended to give us some
faint conception of the sympathy that Jesus
felt when He had taken our sins, our sicknesses
and our sorrows. Let us not hesitate to lay
them on Him! It is far easier for Him to bear
them off us than to bear them with us. He
has already borne them for us, both in His
life and in His death. Let us roll the burden
upon Him, and let it roll away, and then, strong
in His strength, and rested in His life and love,
let us go forth to minister to others the sympathy
and help which He has so richly given us.
</p>

<p>
The world is full of sorrow, and they that
have known its bitterness and healing are God's
ministers of consolation to a weeping world.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O, the tears that flow around us,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Let us wipe them while we may;</l>
<l>Bring the broken hearts to Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>He will wipe their tears away.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='302'/><anchor id='Pg302'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 23.</head>

<p>
<q>How long halt ye between two opinions?</q> (I. Kings xviii. 21).
</p>

<p>
It is strange that people will not get over
the idea that a consecrated life is a difficult
one. A simple illustration will answer
this foolish impression. Suppose
a street car driver were to say, <q>It is much
easier to run with one wheel on the track and
the other off,</q> his line would soon be dropped
by the public, and they would prefer to walk.
Of course, it is ever so much easier to run with
both wheels on the track, and always on the
track, and it is much easier to follow Christ
fully than to follow with a half heart and halting
step. The prophet was right in his pungent
question, <q>How long halt ye between two
opinions?</q> The undecided man is a halting
man. The halting man is a lame man and a
miserable man, and the out-and-out Christian
is the admiration of men and angels, and a continual
joy to himself.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Say, is it all for Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As you so often sing;</l>
<l>Is He your Royal Master,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Is He your heart's true King?</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='303'/><anchor id='Pg303'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 24.</head>

<p>
<q>First gave their ownselves to the Lord, and unto
us by the will of God</q> (II. Cor. viii. 5).
</p>

<p>
It is essential, in order to be successful in
Christian work, that you shall be loyal
not only to God, but to the work with
which you are associated. The more
deeply one knows the Lord the easier it is to
get along with Him.
</p>

<p>
Superficial Christians are apt to be crotchetty.
Mature Christians are so near the Lord
that they are not afraid of missing His guidance,
and not always trying to assert their loyalty
to Him and independence of others.
</p>

<p>
The Corinthians, who had given themselves
first to the Lord, had no difficulty in giving
themselves to His Apostle by the will of God.
It is delightful to work with true hearts on
whom we can utterly depend.
</p>

<p>
God give us the spirit of a sound mind and
the heart to <q>help along.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>You can help by holy prayer,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Helpful love and joyful song;</l>
<l>O, the burdens you may bear;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O, the sorrows you may share;</l>
<l>O, the crowns you may yet may wear,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>If you help along.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='304'/><anchor id='Pg304'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 25.</head>

<p>
<q>Now it is high time to awake out of sleep. Let
us cast off the works of darkness and let us put on
the armor of light</q> (Rom. xiii. 11, 12).
</p>

<p>
Let us wake out of sleep; let us be alert;
let us be alive to the great necessities
that really concern us.
</p>

<p>
Let us put off the garments of the
night and the indulgences of the night; the
loose robes of pleasure and flowing garments
of repose; the festal pleasures of the hours of
darkness are not for the children of the day.
Let us cast off the works of darkness.
</p>

<p>
Let us arm ourselves for the day. Before
we put on our clothes, let us put on our weapons,
for we are stepping out into a land of
enemies and a world of dangers; let us put on
the helmet of salvation, the breastplate of faith
and love, and the shield of faith, and stand
armed and vigilant as the dangers of the last
days gather around us.
</p>

<p>
Let us put on the Lord Jesus Christ. This
is our robe of day. Not our own works or
righteousness, but the person and righteousness
of the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave us
His very life, and becomes to us our All-Sufficiency.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='305'/><anchor id='Pg305'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 26.</head>

<p>
<q>Go out into the highways and compel them to
come in</q> (Luke xiv. 23).
</p>

<p>
In the great parable in the fourteenth
chapter of Luke, giving an account of
the great supper an ancient lord prepared
for his friends and neighbors, and
to which, when they asked to be excused, he
invited the halt and the lame from the city
slums and the lepers from outside the gate,
there is a significant picture and object lesson
of the program of Christianity in this age.
</p>

<p>
In the first place, it is obvious to every
thoughtful mind that the Master is beginning
to excuse the Gospel-hardened people of Christian
countries. It is getting constantly more
difficult to interest the unsaved of our own
land, especially those that have been accustomed
to hear the Gospel and the things of
Christ. They have asked to be excused from
the Gospel feast, and the Lord is excusing them.
</p>

<p>
At the same time, two remarkable movements
indicated in the parable are becoming
more and more manifest in our time. One is
the Gospel for the slums and the neglected
classes at home; the other is the Gospel for the
heathen or the neglected classes abroad.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='306'/><anchor id='Pg306'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 27.</head>

<p>
<q>Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh; is
there anything too hard for Me?</q> (Jer. xxxii. 27.)
</p>

<p>
Cyrus, the King, was compelled to fulfil
the vision of Jeremiah, by making a
decree, the instant the prophecy had
foretold, declaring that Jehovah had
bidden him rebuild Jerusalem and invite her
captives to return to their native home. So
Jeremiah's faith was vindicated and Jehovah's
prophecy gloriously fulfilled, as faith ever will
be honored. Oh, for the faith, that in the dark
present and the darker future, shall dare to subscribe
the evidences and seal up the documents
if need be, for the time of waiting, and then
begin to testify to the certainty of its hope like
the prophet of Anathoth!
</p>

<p>
The word Anathoth has a beautiful meaning,
<q>echoes.</q> So faith is the <q>echo</q> of God and
God always gives the <q>echo</q> to faith, as He
answers it back in glorious fulfilment. Oh,
let our faith echo also the brave claim of the
ancient prophet and take our full inheritance,
with his glorious shout, <q>Oh, Lord, Thou art
the God of all flesh, is there anything too hard
for the Lord?</q> and back like an echo will come
the heavenly answer to our heart, <q>I am the God
of all flesh, is there anything too hard for Me?</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='307'/><anchor id='Pg307'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 28.</head>

<p>
<q>Thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful
in a very little, have thou authority over ten
cities</q> (Luke xix. 17).
</p>

<p>
It is not our success in service that counts,
but our fidelity. Caleb and Joshua were
faithful and God remembered it when
the day of visitation came. It was a
very difficult and unpopular position, and all of
us are called in the crisis of our lives to stand
alone and in this very matter of trusting God
for victory over sin and our full inheritance in
Christ we have all to be tested as they.
</p>

<p>
Our brethren even in the church of God,
while admitting in the abstract the loveliness
and advantages of such an ideal life, tell us as
they told Israel that it is impracticable and impossible,
and many of us have to stand alone
for years witnessing to the power of Christ to
save His people to the uttermost and like Caleb
following Him wholly, if alone. But this is the
real victory of faith and the proof of our uncompromising
fidelity.
</p>

<p>
Let us not therefore complain when we suffer
reproach for our testimony or stand alone for
God, but thank Him that He so honors us,
and so stand the test that He can afterwards
use us when the multitudes are glad to follow.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='308'/><anchor id='Pg308'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 29.</head>

<p>
<q>Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name,
He will give it you</q> (John xvi. 23).
</p>

<p>
Two men go to the bank cashier, both
holding in their hands a piece of paper.
One is dressed in expensive style, and
presents a gloved and jeweled hand;
the other is a rough, unwashed workman. The
first is rejected with a polite sentence, and the
second receives a thousand dollars over the
counter. What is the difference? The one
presented a worthless name; the other handed
in a note endorsed by the president of the bank.
And so the most virtuous moralist will be
turned away from the gates of mercy, and the
vilest sinner welcomed in if he presents the
name of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
What shall we give to infinite purity and
righteousness? Jesus! No other gift is worthy
for God to receive. And He has given Him to
us for this very end, to give back as our substitute
and satisfaction. And He has <q>testified</q>
of this gift what He has of no other, namely,
that in Him He is well pleased and all who receive
Him <q>are accepted in the Beloved.</q> Shall
we accept the testimony that God is satisfied
with His Son? Shall we be satisfied with
Him?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='309'/><anchor id='Pg309'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 30.</head>

<p>
<q>Dwell deep</q> (Jer. xlix. 8).
</p>

<p>
God's presence blends with every other
thought and consciousness, flowing
sweetly and evenly through our business
plans, our social converse our
heart's affections, our manual toil, our entire
life, blending with all, consecrating all, and
conscious through all, like the fragrance of a
flower, or the presence of a friend consciously
near, and yet not hindering in the least the
most intense and constant preoccupation of the
hands and brain. How beautiful the established
habit of this unceasing communion and
dependence, amid and above all thoughts and
occupations! How lovely to see a dear old
saint folding away his books at night and humbly
saying, <q>Lord Jesus, things are still just
the same between us,</q> and the falling asleep
in His keeping.
</p>

<p>
So let us be stayed upon Him. Let us grow
into Him with all the root and fibers of our being.
He will not get tired of our friendship.
He will not want to put us off sometimes.
Beautiful the words of the suffering saint: <q>He
never says good-bye.</q> He stays. So let us be
stayed on Him.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='310'/><anchor id='Pg310'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October 31.</head>

<p>
<q>My grace is sufficient for thee; for My strength is
made perfect in weakness</q> (II. Cor. xii. 9).
</p>

<p>
God allowed the crisis to close around
Jacob on the night when he bowed at
Peniel in supplication to bring him to
the place where he could take hold of
God as he never would have done; and from
that narrow pass of peril Jacob came enlarged
in his faith and knowledge of God, and in the
power of a new and victorious life. He had to
compel David, by a long and painful discipline
of years, to learn the almighty power and
faithfulness of his God, and to grow up
into the established principles of faith and
godliness, which were indispensable for his
subsequent and glorious career as the king of
Israel.
</p>

<p>
Nothing but the extremities in which Paul
was constantly placed could ever have taught
him, and taught the church through him, the
full meaning of the great promise he so learned
to claim, <q>My grace is sufficient for thee.</q> And
nothing but our trials and perils would ever
have led some of us to know Him as we do, to
trust Him as we have, and to draw from Him
the measures of grace which our very extremities
made indispensable.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='311'/><anchor id='Pg311'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 1.</head>

<p>
<q>We will come unto him and make our abode with
him</q> (John xiv. 23).
</p>

<p>
This idea of trying to get a holiness of
your own, and then have Christ reward
you for it, is not His teaching.
Oh, no; Christ is the holiness; He will
bring the holiness, and come and dwell in the
heart forever.
</p>

<p>
When one of our millionaires purchases a
lot, with an old shanty on it, he does not fix up
the old shanty, but he gets a second-hand man,
if he will have it, to tear it down, and he puts
a mansion in its place. It is not fixing up the
house that you need, but to give Christ the vacant
lot, and He will excavate below our old
life and build a house where He will live forever.
</p>

<p>
Now that is what we mean when we say that
Christ will be the preparation for the blessing,
and make way for His own approach. It is as
when a great Assyrian king used to set out on
a march. He did not command the people to
make a road, but he sent on his own men, and
they cut down the trees and filled the broken
places, and levelled the mountains. So He
will, if we will let Him, be the Coming King,
the Author and Finisher of our faith.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='312'/><anchor id='Pg312'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 2.</head>

<p>
<q>Bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience
of Christ</q> (II. Cor. x. 5).
</p>

<p>
If we would abide in Christ we must have
no confidence in self. Self-repression
must be ever the prime necessity of divine
fulness and efficiency. Now you
know how quickly you spring to the front
when any emergency arises. When something
in which you are interested comes up, you say
what you think under some sudden impulse,
and then perhaps you have weeks of taking
back your thought and taking the Lord's instead.
It is only when we get out of the way
of the Lord that He can use us. So, be out of
self, always suspending your will about everything
until you have looked at it and said:
<q>Lord, what is your will? What is your
thought about it?</q>
</p>

<p>
Those who thus abide in Christ have the
habit of reserve and quiet; they are not rattling
and reckless talkers, they will not always have
an opinion about everything, and they will not
always know what they are going to do. There
will be a deferential holding back of judgment,
and walking softly with God. It is our headlong,
impulsive spirit that keeps us so constantly
from hearing and following the Lord.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='313'/><anchor id='Pg313'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 3.</head>

<p>
<q>This is my Beloved, and this is my Friend</q> (Song
of Solomon v. 16).
</p>

<p>
He is our Friend. <q>Which of you shall
have a friend at night?</q> This has
deep significance through the experience
of each one of us. Who has not
had a friend, and more of a friend in some respects
than even a father?
</p>

<p>
There are some intimacies not born of human
blood that are the most intense and lasting
bonds of earthly love. One by one let us
count them over and recall each act and bond
of love, and think of all that we may trust
them for and all in which they stood by us,
and then as we concentrate the whole weight
of recollection and affection, let us put God
in that place of confidence and think He is
all that and infinitely more.
</p>

<p>
Our Friend! The one who is personally interested
in us; who has set His heart upon us;
who has come near to us in the tender and delicate
intimacy of unspeakable fellowship; who
gave us such invaluable pledges and promises;
who has done so much for us, and who is ever
ready to take any trouble or go to any expense
to aid us&mdash;to Him we are coming in prayer,
our Heavenly Friend.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='314'/><anchor id='Pg314'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 4.</head>

<p>
<q>Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings
as in obeying the voice of the Lord?</q> (I. Sam. xv. 22).
</p>

<p>
Many a soul prays for sanctification,
but fails to enter into the blessing
because he does not intelligently
understand and believingly accept
God's appointed means by Jesus Christ and
the indwelling of the Spirit. Many a prayer
for the salvation of others is hindered because
the very friend takes the wrong course to bring
about the answer, and resorts to means which
are wholly fitted to defeat his worthy object.
</p>

<p>
We know many a wife who is pleading for
her husband's soul, and hoping to win him by
avoiding anything that may offend him, and
yielding to all his worldly tastes in the vain
hope of attracting him to Christ. Far more
effective would be an attitude of fidelity to
God and fearless testimony to Him, such as
God could bless.
</p>

<p>
Many a congregation wonders why it is so
poor and struggling. It may be found that its
financial methods are wholly unscriptural and
often unworthy of ordinary self-respect.
</p>

<p>
When we ask God for any blessing, we must
allow Him to direct the steps which are to
bring the answer.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='315'/><anchor id='Pg315'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 5.</head>

<p>
<q>I in them, and Thou in Me</q> (John xvii. 23).
</p>

<p>
If we would be enlarged to the full measure
of God's purpose, let us endeavor to
realize something of our own capacities
for His filling.
</p>

<p>
We little know the size of a human soul and
spirit. Never, until He renews, cleanses and
enters the heart can we have any adequate conception
of the possibilities of the being whom
God made in His very image, and whom He
now renews after the pattern of the Lord Jesus
Himself.
</p>

<p>
We know, however, that God has made the
human soul to be His temple and abode, and
that He knows how to make the house that can
hold His infinite fulness. We know something
of this as all our nature quickens into spring
tide life at the coming of the Holy Spirit, and
as from time to time new baptisms awaken the
dormant powers and susceptibilities that we
did not know we possessed.
</p>

<p>
Oh, let us give Him the right to make the
best of us, and, with wonder filled, we shall
some day behold the glorious temple which He
has reared, and shall say, <q>Lord, what is man
that Thou hast set Thine heart upon Him?</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='316'/><anchor id='Pg316'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 6.</head>

<p>
<q>Bless the Lord, O, my soul</q> (Ps. ciii. 1).
</p>

<p>
Bless the Lord, O my soul; and all
that is within me be stirred up to
magnify His holy name. <q>Bless the
Lord, O my soul, and forget not all
His benefits; who forgiveth all thine iniquities;
who healeth all thy diseases; who redeemeth
thy life from destruction; who crowneth
thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies;
who satisfieth thy mouth with good
things, so that thy youth is renewed like the
eagle's.</q> Who so well can sing this thanksgiving
song as we, rejoicing as most of us do,
we trust, in this full salvation, and praising
God for the glorious health of a risen Lord
and a continual youth?
</p>

<p>
This psalm and its opening verses is in the
very center of the Scriptures by an exact count
of letters and verses. So let it stand in our
lives, as we look backward and forward and
upward in grateful thanksgiving as we sing
in its closing strains, <q>Bless the Lord, O my
soul, and all that is within me, bless His holy
name.</q> Lord, center my heart in Thee and
in the spirit of love and praise.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='317'/><anchor id='Pg317'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 7.</head>

<p>
<q>I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea,
I will uphold thee</q> (Isa. xli. 10).
</p>

<p>
God has three ways of helping us:
First, He says, <q>I will strengthen
thee</q>; that is, I will make you a little
stronger yourself. And secondly, <q>I
will help thee</q>; that is, I will add My strength
to your strength, but you shall lead and I will
help you. But thirdly, when you are ready, <q>I
will uphold thee with the right hand of My
righteousness</q>; that is, I will lift you up bodily
and carry you altogether, and it will neither
be your strength or My help, but My complete
upholding. Hence it must be quite true, that
when we come to the end of our strength, we
come to the beginning of His, and that in Him
the weakest are the strongest, and the most
helpless the most helped. <q>He giveth power
to the faint,</q> but to <q>them that have no might</q>
at all <q>He gives more strength,</q> and His word
forever is, <q>My grace is sufficient for thee.</q>
The answer is a paradox of contradictions, and
yet the most practical truths, <q>Most gladly,
therefore, will I glory in my infirmities, that
the power of Christ may rest upon me; for
when I am weak, then am I strong.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='318'/><anchor id='Pg318'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 8.</head>

<p>
<q>For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus
hath made me free</q> (Rom. viii. 2).
</p>

<p>
There is a natural law of sin and sickness,
and if we just let ourselves go
and sink into the trend of circumstances
we shall go down and sink under
the power of the tempter. But there is another
law of spiritual life and of physical life
in Christ Jesus to which we can rise and
through which we can counterpoise and overcome
the other law that bears us down. But
to do this requires real spiritual energy and
fixed purpose and a settled posture and habit
of faith. It is just the same when we bind the
power in our factory. We must turn the belt
on and keep it on. The power is there, but we
must keep the connection and while we do so
the law of this higher power will work and all
the machinery will be in operation. There is
a spiritual law of choosing, believing, abiding
and holding steady in our walk with God which
is essential to the working of the Holy Ghost
either in our sanctification or healing.
</p>

<lg>
<l>There is a word that saves the soul,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'><q>I will trust</q>;</l>
<l>It makes the sick and suffering whole.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'><q>I will trust.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='319'/><anchor id='Pg319'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 9.</head>

<p>
<q>Because I live ye shall live also</q> (John xiv. 19).
</p>

<p>
After having become adjusted to our
Living Head and the source of our
life, now our business is to abide, absorb
and grow, leaning on His
strength, drinking in His life, feeding on Him
as the Living Bread, and drawing all of our resources
from Him in continual dependence and
communion. The Holy Spirit will be the great
Teacher and Minister in this blessed process.
He will take of the things of Christ and show
them unto us, and He will impart them through
all the channels and functions of our spiritual
organism. As we yield ourselves to Him
He will breathe His own prayer of communion,
drawing out our hearts in longings and hungerings,
which are the pledge of their own fulfilment,
calling us apart in silent and wordless
prayer and opening every pore, organ, sense and
sensibility of our spiritual being to take in His
life. As the lungs absorb the oxygen of the atmosphere,
as the senses breathe in the sweet
odors of the garden, so the heart instinctively
receives and rejoices in the affection and
fellowship of the beloved One by our side.
Thus we become like a tree planted by the rivers
of waters.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='320'/><anchor id='Pg320'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 10.</head>

<p>
<q>But prayer was made without ceasing, of the
church unto God for him</q> (Acts xii. 5).
</p>

<p>
But prayer is the link that connects us
with God. This is the bridge that
spans every gulf and bears us over
every abyss of danger or of need.
How significant the picture of the apostolic
church: Peter in prison, the Jews triumphant,
Herod supreme, the arena of martyrdom awaiting
the dawning of the morning to drink up
the apostle's blood,&mdash;everything else against it.
<q>But prayer was made unto God without ceasing.</q>
And what the sequel? The prison open,&mdash;the
apostle free,&mdash;the Jews baffled,&mdash;the
wicked king eaten of worms, a spectacle of
hideous retribution, and the Word of God
rolling on in greater victory.
</p>

<p>
Do we know the power of our supernatural
weapon? Do we dare to use it with the authority
of a faith that commands as well as asks?
God baptize us with holy audacity and Divine
confidence. He is not wanting great men, but
He is wanting men that will dare to prove the
greatness of their God.
</p>

<p>
But God! But prayer!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='321'/><anchor id='Pg321'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 11.</head>

<p>
<q>Reckon yourselves dead, indeed</q> (Rom. vi. 11).
</p>

<p>
Our life from the dead is to be followed
up by the habit and attitude henceforth
which is the logical outcome of
all this. <q>Reckon yourselves <emph>dead indeed</emph>,
unto sin, but <emph>alive unto God</emph> through Jesus
Christ, and yield yourselves unto God,</q> not to
die over again every day, <q><emph>but, as those who are
alive from the dead</emph>, and your members as instruments
of righteousness unto God.</q>
</p>

<p>
Further His resurrection life is given to fit
us for <q>the fellowship of His sufferings and
to be made conformable unto His death.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is intended to enable us to toil and suffer
with rejoicing and victory. We <q>mount up
with wings as eagles,</q> that we may come back
to <q>run and not be weary, to walk and not
faint.</q>
</p>

<p>
But let us not mistake the sufferings. They
do not mean <emph>our</emph> sufferings, but His. They are
not our struggles after holiness, our sicknesses
and pains, but those higher sufferings which,
with Him, we bear for others, and for a suffering
church and a dying world. May God help
us, henceforth, never to have another sorrow
for ourselves, and put us at leisure, in the power
of His resurrection, to bear His burdens and
drink His cup.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='322'/><anchor id='Pg322'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 12.</head>

<p>
<q>The earnest of the Spirit in our hearts</q> (II. Cor. i. 22).
</p>

<p>
Life in earnest. What a rare, what a
glorious spectacle! We see it in the
Son of God, we see it in His apostle, we
see it in every noble, consecrated and
truly successful life. Without it there may be
a thousand good things, but they lack the golden
thread that binds them all into a chain of
power and permanence. They are like a lot of
costly and beautiful beads on a broken string,
that fall into confusion, and are lost in the end
for want of the bond that alone could bind
them into a life of consistent and lasting power.
O for the baptism of fire! O for <q><hi rend='smallcaps'>the earnest,
the spirit</hi>!</q> O for lives that have but one
thing to do or care for! O for the depth and
everlasting strength of the heart of Christ within
our breast, to love, to sacrifice, to realize,
to persevere, to live and die like Him!
</p>

<lg>
<l>We are going forth with a trust so sacred,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And a truth so divine and deep,</l>
<l>With a message clear and a work so glorious,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And a charge&mdash;such a charge&mdash;to keep.</l>
<l>Let it be your greatest joy, my brother,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That the Lord can count on you;</l>
<l>And if all besides should fail and falter,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To your trust be always true.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='323'/><anchor id='Pg323'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 13.</head>

<p>
<q>Delight thyself in the Lord</q> (Ps. xxxvii. 4).
</p>

<p>
Daniel's heart was filled with God's
love for His work and kingdom and
his prayers were the mightiest forces
of his time, through which God gave
to him the restoration of Israel to their own
land, and the acknowledgment by the rulers
of the world of the God of whom he testified
and for whom he lived.
</p>

<p>
There is a beautiful promise in the thirty-seventh
Psalm, <q>Delight thyself in the Lord,
and He will give thee the desires of thine
heart,</q> which it is, perhaps, legitimate to translate,
that not only does it mean the fulfilment
of our desires, but even the inspiration of our
desires, the inbreathing of His thoughts into
us, so that our prayers shall be in accord with
His will and so shall bring back to us the unfailing
answer of His mighty providence.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Teach me Thy thoughts, O God!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Think Thou, Thyself, in me,</l>
<l>Then shall I only always think</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Thine own thoughts after Thee.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Teach me Thy thoughts, O God!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Show me Thy plan divine:</l>
<l>Save me from all my plans and works,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And lead me into Thine.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='324'/><anchor id='Pg324'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 14.</head>

<p>
<q>The things which are seen are temporal</q> (II. Cor. iv. 18).
</p>

<p>
How strong is the snare of the things
that are seen, and how necessary for
God to keep us in the things that are
unseen! If Peter is to walk on the
water, he must walk; if he is going to swim, he
must swim, but he cannot do both. If the bird
is going to fly it must keep away from the
fences and the trees, and trust to its buoyant
wings. But if it tries to keep within easy reach
of the ground, it will make poor work of flying.
</p>

<p>
God had to bring Abraham to the end of his
own strength, and to let him see that in his own
body he could do nothing. He had to consider
his own body as good as dead, and then take
God for the whole work, and when he looked
away from himself, and trusted God alone, then
He became fully persuaded that what He had
promised, He was able also to perform.
</p>

<p>
This is what God is teaching us, and He has
to keep away encouraging results until we
learn to trust without them, and then He loves
to make His word real in fact as well as faith.
</p>

<p>
Let us look only to Him to-day to do all
things as He shall choose and in the way He
shall choose.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='325'/><anchor id='Pg325'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 15.</head>

<p>
<q>Oh, man of desires</q> (margin) (Dan. x. 11).
</p>

<p>
This was the divine character given to
Daniel of old. It is translated in our
version, <q>O man, greatly beloved.</q>
But it literally means <q>O man of desires!</q>
This is a necessary element in all spiritual
forces. It is one of the secrets of effectual
prayer, <q>What things soever ye desire, when
ye pray, believe that ye receive them.</q> The
element of strong desire gives momentum to
our purposes and prayers. Indifference is an
unwholesome condition; indolence and apathy
are offensive both to God and nature.
</p>

<p>
And so in our spiritual life, God often has to
wake us up by the presence of trying circumstances,
and push us into new places of trust
by forces that we must subdue, or sink beneath
their power. There is no factor in prayer more
effectual than love. If we are intensely interested
in an object, or an individual, our petitions
become like living forces, and not only
convey their wants to God, but in some sense
convey God's help back to them.
</p>

<p>
May God fill us to-day with the heart of
Christ that we may glow with the Divine fire
of holy desire.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='326'/><anchor id='Pg326'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 16.</head>

<p>
<q>Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day</q> (Matt. xxv. 13).
</p>

<p>
Jesus illustrates the unexpectedness of
His coming by the figure of a thief entering
a house when the master was not
there. Life, like the old Jewish night,
may be divided into three watches, youth, maturity,
old age. The summons to meet God
may come to us in either of these watches. A
writer tells us of his experience with a camping
party, of which he was a member, and
which, he tells us, always arranged to have
watches at night. <q>We became especially careful
after what I am about to narrate happened.
During the first night, from sunset to sunrise,
we had in turn carefully guarded our camp.
But when the next night came, so impressed
were we with the orderly character of the
neighborhood, that we concluded that no guard
was needed until bedtime. Within our main
tent the evening was spent in story-telling,
singing and general amusement. When the
hour to retire arrived, it was discovered that
our other tents had been robbed and everything
of value stolen. The work was done before
we thought a guard necessary.</q> It is
never too soon to begin watching against sin.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='327'/><anchor id='Pg327'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 17.</head>

<p>
<q>The ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them</q> (Num. x. 33).
</p>

<p>
God does give us impressions but not
that we should act on them as impressions.
If the impression be from God,
He will Himself give sufficient evidence
to establish it beyond the possibility of
a doubt.
</p>

<p>
How beautifully we read, in the story of Jeremiah,
of the impression that came to him respecting
the purchase of the field of Anathoth,
but Jeremiah did not act upon this impression
until after the following day, when his uncle's
son came to him and brought him external
evidence by making a proposal for the purchase.
Then Jeremiah said: <q>I knew this was
the word of the Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
He waited until God seconded the impression
by a providence, and then he acted in full view
of the open facts, which could bring conviction
unto others as well as himself.
</p>

<p>
God wants us to act according to His mind.
</p>

<p>
We are not to ignore the Shepherd's personal
voice, but like Paul and his companions at
Troas, we are to listen to all the voices that
speak, and <q>gather</q> from all the circumstances,
as they did, the full mind of the Lord.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='328'/><anchor id='Pg328'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 18.</head>

<p>
<q>And He that sat upon the throne said, It is done</q> (Rev. xxi. 5, 6).
</p>

<p>
Great is the difference between action
and transaction. We may be constantly
acting without accomplishing anything,
but a transaction is action that
passes beyond the point of return, and becomes
a permanent committal. Salvation is a transaction
between the soul and Christ in which
the matter passes beyond recall. Sanctification
is a great transaction in which we are
utterly surrendered, irrevocably consecrated
and wholly committed to the Holy Ghost, and
then He comes and seals the transaction and
undertakes the work. Our covenant for our
Lord's healing should be just as explicit, definite
and irrevocable. And so of the covenants
to which God is leading His children from time
to time in regard to other matters of obedience
and service. God grant that during this hallowed
day many a consecrated life may be able
to say with new significance and permanence,
<q>'Tis done, the great transaction's done.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>For the living Vine is Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In whose fulness we may hide;</l>
<l>And find our life and fruitfulness</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As we in Him abide.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='329'/><anchor id='Pg329'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 19.</head>

<p>
<q>We would see Jesus</q> (John xii. 21).
</p>

<p>
When any great blessing is awaiting
us, the devil is sure to try and make
it so disagreeable to us that we shall
miss it. It is a good thing to know
him as a liar, and remember, when he is trying
to prejudice us strongly against any cause, that
very likely the greatest blessing of our life lies
there. Spurgeon once said that the best evidence
that God was on our side is the devil's
growl, and we are generally pretty safe in following
a thing according to Satan's dislike for
it. Beloved, take care, lest in the very line
where your prejudices are setting you off from
God's people and God's truth, you are missing
the treasures of your life. Take the treasures
of heaven no matter how they come to you,
even if it be as earthly treasures generally
are, like the kernel inside the rough shell, or
the gem in the bosom of the hard rock.
</p>

<lg>
<l>I have seen Jesus and my heart is dead to all beside,</l>
<l>I have seen Jesus, and my wants are all, in Him, supplied.</l>
<l>I have seen Jesus, and my heart, at last, is satisfied,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 8'>Since I've seen Jesus.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='330'/><anchor id='Pg330'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 20.</head>

<p>
<q>The disciple whom Jesus loved leaned on His
breast</q> (John xxi. 20).
</p>

<p>
An American gentleman once visited the
saintly Albert Bengel. He was very
desirous to hear him pray. So one
night he lingered at his door, hoping
to overhear his closing devotions. The rooms
were adjoining and the doors ajar. The good
man finished his studies, closed his books, knelt
down for a moment and simply said: <q>Dear
Lord Jesus, things are still the same between
us,</q> and then sweetly fell asleep. So close was
his communion with his Lord that labor did
not interrupt it, and prayer was not necessary
to renew it. It was a ceaseless, almost unconscious
presence, like the fragrance of the
summer garden, or the presence of some dear
one by our side whose presence we somehow
feel, even though the busy hours pass by and
not a word is exchanged.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>O blessed fellowship, divine,</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O joy, supremely sweet,</l>
<l>Companionship with Jesus here,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Makes life with joy replete;</l>
<l>O wondrous grace, O joy sublime,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>I've Jesus with me all the time.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='331'/><anchor id='Pg331'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Consider the lilies how they grow</q> (Matt. vi. 28).
</p>

<p>
It is said that a little fellow was found one
day by his mother, standing by a tall
sunflower, with his feet stuck in the
ground. When asked by her, <q>What in
the world are you doing there?</q> he naively answered,
<q>Why, I am trying to grow to be a
man.</q>
</p>

<p>
His mother laughed heartily at the idea of
his getting planted in the ground in order to
grow, like the sunflower, and then, patting him
gently on the head, <q>Why, Harry, that is not
the way to grow. You can never grow bigger
by trying. Just come right in, and eat lots of
good food, and have plenty of play, and you
will soon grow to be a man without trying so
hard.</q>
</p>

<p>
Well, Harry's mother was right. Mrs. H.
W. Smith never said a sweeter thing than when
she answered the question&mdash;<q>How do the lilies
grow?</q> by simply adding, <q>They grow without
trying.</q>
</p>

<p>
Our sweetest spiritual life is the life of self-unconsciousness
through which we become so
united to Christ, and live continually on His
life, nourished, fed and constantly filled with
His Spirit and presence and all the fulness of
His imparted life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='332'/><anchor id='Pg332'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 22.</head>

<p>
<q>Cast the beam out of thine own eye</q> (Matt. vii. 5).
</p>

<p>
Greater than the fault you condemn
and criticise is the sin of criticism and
condemnation. There is no place we
need such grace as in dealing with an
erring one. A lady once called on us on her
way to give an erring sister a piece of her mind.
We advised her to wait until she could love her
a little more. Only He who loved sinners well
enough to die for them can deal with the erring.
We never see all the heart. He does, and He
can convict without condemning, and reprove
without discouraging. Oh, for more of the
heart of Christ! Take care, brother, how you
speak of another's fault. Ere you know, you
may be in the same or deeper condemnation.
Very significantly does the Master say that the
man that sees a mote in his brother's eye, usually
has a rafter in his own eye! One of the
two unpardonable sins of the Bible is unforgiving
lovelessness.
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Give me a heart like Thine,</q></l>
<l>Give me a heart like Thine,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By Thy wonderful power,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By Thy grace every hour,</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Give me a heart like Thine.</q></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='333'/><anchor id='Pg333'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 23.</head>

<p>
<q>It is high time to awake out of sleep</q> (Rom. xiii. 11).
</p>

<p>
One of the greatest enemies to faith is
indolence. It is much easier to lie and
suffer than to rise and overcome; much
easier to go to sleep on a snowbank
and never wake again, than to rouse
one's self and shake off the lethargy and overcome
the stupor. Faith is an energetic art;
prayer is intense labor; the effectual working
prayer of the righteous man availeth much.
</p>

<p>
Satan tries to put us to sleep, as he did the
disciples in the garden; but let us not sleep as
do others, but let us wake and be sober, continuing
in prayer and watching therein with all
perseverance, stirring up ourselves to take hold
of His strength, <q>not slothful, but followers of
them, who, through patience, inherit the promise.</q>
It is the wind that carries the ship across
the waves; but the wind is powerless unless
the hand of the boatman is held firmly upon the
rudder, and that rudder is set hard against the
wind. In like manner we hold the rudder, God
fills the sails. It is not the rudder that carries
the ship; but it is the rudder which catches the
wind that carries the ship, so God keeps us in
perfect peace while we are stayed upon Him.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='334'/><anchor id='Pg334'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 24.</head>

<p>
<q>I can do all things through Christ</q> (Phil. iv. 13).
</p>

<p>
A dear sister said one day: <q>I have so
much work to do that I have not time
to get strength to do it by waiting on
the Lord.</q> Surely that was making
bricks without straw, and even if it was the
name of the Lord and the church, it was the
devil's bondage. God sends not His servants
on their own charges; but <q>He is able to make
all grace abound towards us, that we, always
having all sufficiency in all things, may abound
unto every good work.</q> The old story of the
chieftain, fleeing from his foes and almost overtaken,
but stopping in the midst of his flight to
get a shoe upon his horse that he might fly
more successfully is a true type and lesson for
Christian workers.
</p>

<p>
The old Latin motto <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>festina lente</foreign>,
<q>make haste slowly,</q> has a great lesson for us. The more
work we have to do, the more frequently we
have to drop our head upon our desk and wait
a little for heavenly aid and love, and then
press on with new strength. One hour baptized
in the love of the Holy Ghost is worth
ten battling against wind and tide without the
heavenly life.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='335'/><anchor id='Pg335'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 25.</head>

<p>
<q>Judge nothing before the time, until the Lord
come</q> (I. Cor. iv. 5).
</p>

<p>
Nothing will more effectually arrest
the working of the Spirit in the heart
than the spirit of criticism. At the end
of a meeting a young minister came
forward and told us of the great blessing he
had received that afternoon, and the baptism of
the Holy Spirit that had come into his heart
and being, setting him free from the bondage
of years. And then he added, <q>It all came
through your answer to that question, <q>Will a
criticizing spirit hinder the Holy Ghost from
filling the heart?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
As the question was asked and answered, he
said, <q>I was sitting in the church criticizing a
good deal that was going on, objecting to this
thing and to that thing, finding fault with the
expressions, and praises and testimonies, and
feeling thoroughly unhappy. The Lord
brought the answer home to my heart and convicted
me of my sin, and there and then I laid it
down and began to see the good instead of the
evil. Blessing fell upon me and my soul was
filled with joy and praise, and I saw where my
error lay, that for years I had been trying to
see the truth with my head instead of my heart.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='336'/><anchor id='Pg336'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 26.</head>

<p>
<q>He purgeth it that it may bring forth more fruit</q> (John xv. 2).
</p>

<p>
One day we passed a garden. The gardener
had finished his pruning, and the
wounds of the knife and saw were beginning
to heal, while the warm April
sun was gently nourishing the stricken plant
into fresh life and energy. We thought as we
looked at that plant how cruel it would be to
begin next week and cut it down again. It
would bleed to death. Now, the gardener's
business is to revive and nourish into life. Its
business is not to die, but to live. So, we
thought, it is with the discipline of the soul.
It, too, has its dying hour; but it must not be
always dying. Rather reckon ourselves to be
dead indeed unto sin and alive unto God
through Jesus Christ our Lord Everlasting.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Breathe Thine own breath through all my mortal frame,</l>
<l>Help me Thy resurrection life to claim,</l>
<l>Which, 'mid all changes, still abides the same,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And lead me in the way Everlasting.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Give me the heavenly foretaste here, I pray;</l>
<l>Let faith foredate the everlasting day,</l>
<l>And walking in its glory all the way,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O, lead me in the way Everlasting!</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='337'/><anchor id='Pg337'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 27.</head>

<p>
<q>And the remnant of the oil ... shall pour
upon the head</q> (Lev. xiv. 18).
</p>

<p>
In the account of the healing of the Hebrew
leper there is a beautiful picture
of the touching of his ears, hands and
feet, with the redeeming blood and the
consecrating oil, as a sign that his powers of
understanding, service, and conduct were set
apart to God, and divinely endued for the
Master's work and will.
</p>

<p>
But after all this, we are significantly told
that <q>the rest of the oil</q> was to be poured upon
his head.
</p>

<p>
The former anointing was from the oil in
the hand of the priest, but the latter was to be
from the log, or vessel of oil itself. It was to
be literally emptied over him, until he was
bathed with all its contents.
</p>

<p>
It is a figure of the large and boundless baptism
of the Holy Ghost. It speaks of something
more even than the ordinary experiences
of the consecrated Christian. It tells of the
abundant and redundant supply which God
has for us out of His illimitable fulness.
</p>

<p>
Have we received <q>the rest oil</q>? Are
we <emph>filled</emph> with the Spirit, and letting the overflow
bless others?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='338'/><anchor id='Pg338'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 28.</head>

<p>
<q>Without Me ye can do nothing</q> (John xv. 5).
</p>

<p>
How much can I do for Christ? We are
accustomed to say.&mdash;As much as I
can. Have we ever thought we can
do more than we can?
</p>

<p>
This thought was lately suggested by the remarks
of a Christian friend, who told how God
had laid it upon her heart to do something for
His cause which was beyond her power, and
when she dared to obey Him, He gave her the
assurance of His power and resources, and so
marvelously met her faith that she was enabled
to do more than she could otherwise, and
accomplish her heart's desire, and see a work
fulfilled to which her resources were unequal.
</p>

<p>
The apostle says, <q>I can do all things
through Christ, who is my strength,</q> and yet
He says we are not able to think anything, as
of ourselves.
</p>

<p>
Oh, blessed insufficiency! Oh, blessed All-Sufficiency!
Oh, blessed nothingness, which
brings us all things! Oh, blessed faith, whose
rich dowry is, <q>All things are possible to him
that believeth</q>!
</p>

<lg>
<l>O to be found of Him in peace,</l>
<l>Spotless and free from blame.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='339'/><anchor id='Pg339'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 29.</head>

<p>
<q>Could ye not watch with Me one hour?</q> (Matt. xxvi. 40.)
</p>

<p>
A young lady whose parents had died
while she was an infant, had been
kindly cared for by a dear friend of
the family. Before she was old enough
to know him, he went to Europe. Regularly
he wrote to her through all his years of absence,
and never failed to send her money for
all her wants. Finally word came that during
a certain week he would return and visit her.
He did not fix the day or the hour. She received
several invitations to take pleasant trips
with her friends during that week. One of
these was of so pleasant a nature that she
could not resist accepting it. During her trip,
he came, inquired as to her absence, and left.
Returning she found this note: <q>My life has
been a struggle for you, might you not have
waited one week for me?</q> More she never
heard, and her life of plenty became one of
want. Jesus has not fixed the day or hour of
His return, but He has said, <q>Watch,</q> and
should He come to-day, would He find us absorbed
in thoughtless dissipation? May we be
found each day, in the expectant attitude of
those watching for a loved one.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='340'/><anchor id='Pg340'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November 30.</head>

<p>
<q>In lowliness of mind let each esteem other better
than themselves</q> (Phil. ii. 3).
</p>

<p>
When the apostle speaks of <q>the deep
things of God,</q> he means more than
deep spiritual truth. There must be
something before this. There must
be a deep soil and a thorough foundation.
</p>

<p>
Very much of our spiritual teaching fails,
because the people to whom we give it are so
shallow. Their deeper nature has never been
stirred.
</p>

<p>
The beatitudes begin at the bottom of
things, the poor in spirit, the mourners, and
the hungry hearts. Suffering is essential to
profound spiritual life. We need not go to a
monastery or a leper hospital to find it. The
first real opportunity for unselfishness will
bring into your life the anguish of crucifixion,
unless you are born of some different race from
Adam's.
</p>

<p>
It is because men and women have not faced
this that they know so little of suffering and
death. We must have deep convictions. Truth
must be to us a necessity, and principle a part
of our very being. Lord, make me poor in
spirit. Lord help me to be even as Thou wert
when on earth, always the lowest, and therefore
<q>highly exalted.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='341'/><anchor id='Pg341'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 1.</head>

<p>
<q>As He is, so are we in this world</q> (I. John iv. 17).
</p>

<p>
Jesus will come into the surrendered
heart and unite Himself with it, impart
to it His own life and being and become
anew from day to day, the supply
of its spiritual needs and the substitute for its
helplessness.
</p>

<p>
Our part is simply to yield ourselves fully
recognizing our own worthlessness and then
take Jesus Himself to live in us and be, moment
by moment, our strength, purity and victory.
</p>

<lg>
<l>One in His death on the tree,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>One as He rose from the dead;</l>
<l>I from the curse am as free</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>E'en as my glorious Head.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>One in His merits I stand,</l>
<l>One as I Pray in His name,</l>
<l>All that His worth can demand</l>
<l>I may with confidence claim.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>One on the Throne by His side,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>One in His Sonship divine,</l>
<l>One as the Bridegroom and Bride,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>One as the Branch and the Vine.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>All that He has shall be mine,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>All that He is I shall be;</l>
<l>Robed in His glory divine,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I shall be even as He.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='342'/><anchor id='Pg342'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 2.</head>

<p>
<q>Looking diligently lest any man fail</q> (Heb. xii. 15).
</p>

<p>
It is not losing all, but coming short we
are to fear. We may not lose our souls,
but we may lose something more precious
than life&mdash;His full approval, His
highest choice, and our incorruptible and star-gemmed
crown. It is the one degree more that
counts, and makes all the difference between
hot water&mdash;powerless in the boiler&mdash;and steam&mdash;all
alive with power, and bearing its precious
freight across the continent.
</p>

<lg>
<l>I want, in this short life of mine,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As much as can be pressed</l>
<l>Of service true for God and man,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Help me to be my best.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>I want to stand when Christ appears</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And hear my name confessed</l>
<l>Numbered among the hidden ones,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>His holiest and best.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>I want, among the victor throng,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To have my name confessed;</l>
<l>And hear my Master say at last,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Well done, you did your best.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Give me, O Lord, Thy highest choice;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Let others take the rest:</l>
<l>Their good things have no charm for me,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>For I have got Thy best.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='343'/><anchor id='Pg343'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 3.</head>

<p>
Thy thoughts are very deep (Ps. xcii. 5).
</p>

<p>
When a Roman soldier was told by
his guide that if he insisted on taking
a certain journey it would probably
be fatal he answered, <q>It is
necessary for me to go, it is not necessary for
me to live.</q> That was depth. When we are
convicted like that we shall come to something.
</p>

<p>
The shallow nature lives in its impulses, its
impressions, its intuitions, its instincts, and
very largely in its surroundings. The profound
character looks beyond all these and
moves steadily on, sailing past all the storms
and clouds into the clear sunshine which is always
on the other side, and waiting for the
afterwards which always brings the reversion
of sorrow and seeming defeat and failure.
</p>

<p>
When God has deepened us, then He can
give us His deeper truths, His profoundest secrets,
and His mightier trusts.
</p>

<p>
Lord, lead me into the depths of Thy life
and save me from a shallow experience.
</p>

<lg>
<l>On to broader fields of holy vision;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>On to loftier heights of faith and love;</l>
<l>Onward, upward, apprehending wholly,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>All for which He calls thee from above.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='344'/><anchor id='Pg344'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 4.</head>

<p>
<q>From me is thy fruit found</q> (Hos. xiv. 8).
</p>

<p>
Nothing keeps us from advancement
more than ruts and drifts, and wheel-tracks
into which our chariots roll and
then move on in the narrow line with
unchanging monotony, currents in life's stream
on which we are borne in the old direction until
the law of habit almost makes advance impossible.
The true remedy for this is to commence
at nothing; taking Christ afresh to be
the Alpha and Omega for a deeper, higher,
Divine experience, waiting even for His conception
of thought, desire, prayer, and afraid
lest our highest thought should be below His
great plan of wisdom and love.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O Comforter gentle and tender,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O holy and heavenly Dove,</l>
<l>We're yielding our heart in surrender,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>We're waiting Thy fulness to prove.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>O come as the heart-searching fire,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>O come as the sin-cleansing flood;</l>
<l>Consume us with holy desire,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And fill with the fulness of God.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Anoint us with gladness and healing;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Baptize us with power from on high;</l>
<l>O come with filling and sealing</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>While low at the Thy footstool we lie.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='345'/><anchor id='Pg345'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 5.</head>

<p>
<q>With a perfect heart to make David King</q> (I.
Chron. xii. 38).
</p>

<p>
<q>What is the supreme purpose of our
life? They were all of one heart to
make David king.</q> Is this our purpose,
to prepare the Bride, to prepare
the world, to prepare His way? Does it dwarf
and dim all other ambitions, all other cares?
Does it fill and satisfy every capacity, every
power, every desire? Does it absorb every moment,
every energy, every resource? Does it
give direction and tone to every plan and work
of life? Does it decide for us the education of
our children, the investment of our means, the
friendships and associations of life, the whole
activity, interest and outlook of our being?
Are we in it, spirit, soul and body, all we are,
all we do, all we hope for&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>of one heart to
make Jesus King</hi>?
</p>

<lg>
<l>We're going forth united</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With loyal heart and hand,</l>
<l>To bear His royal banner</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Aboard o'er every land.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>From every tribe and nation</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>We'll haste His Bride to bring.</l>
<l>And Oh, with what glad welcome</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>We'll make our Jesus King.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='346'/><anchor id='Pg346'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 6.</head>

<p>
<q>Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty
hand of God, that He may exalt you</q> (I. Peter v. 6).
</p>

<p>
Opposition is essential to a true equilibrium
of forces. The centripetal
and centrifugal forces acting in opposition
to each other keep our planet in
her orbit. The one propelling, and the other
repelling, so act and react, that instead of
sweeping off into space in a pathway of desolation
and destruction, she pursues her even orbit
around her solar center.
</p>

<p>
So God guides our lives. It is not enough
to have an impelling force&mdash;we need just as
much a repelling force, and so He holds us
back by the testing ordeals of life, by the
pressure of temptation and trial, by the things
that seem to be against us, but really are furthering
our way and stablishing our goings.
Let us thank Him for both, let us take the
weights as well as the wings, and thus divinely
impelled, let us press on with faith and patience
in our high and heavenly calling.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me to learn from all that comes
to me this day Thy highest will.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me to-day to sink under Thy
blessed hand, that Thou mayest have Thy way
and will with me.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='347'/><anchor id='Pg347'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 7.</head>

<p>
<q>Abide with us; for it is toward evening</q> (Luke
xxiv. 29).
</p>

<p>
In His last messages to the disciples in
the 14th and 15th chapters of John, the
Lord Jesus clearly teaches us that the
very essence of the highest holiness is,
<q>Abide in Me, and I in you, for without Me
ye can do nothing.</q>
</p>

<p>
The very purpose of the Holy Ghost whom
He promised was to reveal Him, that at <q>that
day, ye shall know that I am in the Father, and
ye in Me, and I in you,</q> and the closing echo
of His intercessory prayer was embraced in
these three small but infinite words, <q>I in
them.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Is it for me to be cleansed by His power</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>From the pollution of sin?</l>
<l>Is it for me to be kept every hour</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By His abiding within?</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Is it for me to be perfectly whole</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Thro' His anointing divine;</l>
<l>Claiming in body, and spirit, and soul,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>All of His fulness as mine?</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Wonderful promise so full and so free,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Wonderful Saviour, Oh, how can it be,</l>
<l>Cleansing and pardon and mercy for me?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Yes, it's for me, for me.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='348'/><anchor id='Pg348'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 8.</head>

<p>
<q>Is there no balm in Gilead; is there no physician
there?</q> (Jer. viii. 22).
</p>

<p>
Divine healing is just divine life. It is
the headship of Christ over the body.
It is the life of Christ in the frame.
It is the union of our members with
the very body of Christ and the inflowing life
of Christ in our living members. It is as real
as His risen and glorified body. It is as reasonable
as the fact that He was raised from the
dead and is a living man with a true body and
a rational soul to-day, at God's right hand.
That living Christ belongs to us in all His attributes
and powers. We are members of His
body, His flesh and His bones, and if we can
only believe and receive it, we may live upon
the very life of the Son of God.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me to know the <q>Lord for the
body and the body for the Lord.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>There is healing in the promise,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>There is healing in the blood,</l>
<l>There is strength for all our weakness</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In the risen Son of God.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>And the feeblest of His children,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>All His glorious life may share;</l>
<l>He has healing balm in Gilead,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>He's the Great Physician there.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='349'/><anchor id='Pg349'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 9.</head>

<p>
<q>Launch out into the deep</q> (Luke v. 4).
</p>

<p>
One of the special marks of the Holy
Ghost in the Apostolic Church was the
spirit Of boldness. One of the most
essential qualities of the faith that is
to attempt great things for God and expect
great things from God, is holy audacity.
Where we are dealing with a supernatural Being,
and taking from Him things that are humanly
impossible, it is easier to take much
than little; it is easier to stand in a place of
audacious trust than in a place of cautious, timid
clinging to the shore. Like wise seamen in
the life of faith, let us launch out into the deep,
and find that all things are possible with God,
and all things are possible unto him that believeth.
</p>

<p>
Let us to-day attempt great things for God,
take His faith and believe for them and His
strength to accomplish them.
</p>

<lg>
<l>The mercy of God is an ocean divine,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>A boundless and fathomless flood;</l>
<l>Launch out in the deep, cut away the shore-line,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And be lost in the fulness of God.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oh, let us launch out in this ocean so broad,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Where the floods of salvation o'erflow,</l>
<l>Oh, let us be lost in the mercy of God,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Till the depth of His fulness we know.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='350'/><anchor id='Pg350'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 10.</head>

<p>
<q>According to the measure of the rule which God
hath distributed</q> (II. Cor. x. 13).
</p>

<p>
According to thy faith be it unto
thee was Christ's great law of healing
and blessing in His earthly ministry.
This was what He meant when He
said, <q>With what measure ye mete it shall be
measured to you again.</q> These mighty measures
are limited by the the measures that we
bring. God deals out His heavenly treasures
to us in these glorious vessels, but each of us
must bring our drinking cup, and according to
its measure we shall be filled.
</p>

<p>
But even the measure of our faith may be a
Divine one. Thank God, the little cup has become
enlarged through the grace of Jesus, until
from its bottom there flows a pipe into the
great ocean, and if that connection is kept open
we shall find that our cup is as large as the
ocean and never can be drained to the bottom.
For He has said to us, <q>Have the faith of God,</q>
and surely this is an illimitable measure.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Let us claim the mighty promise,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Let us light the torches dim;</l>
<l>Let us join the glorious chorus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Nothing is too hard for Him.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='351'/><anchor id='Pg351'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 11.</head>

<p>
<q>I pray not for the world, but for them</q> (John
xvii. 9).
</p>

<p>
How often we say we would like to get
some strong spirit to pray for us, and
feel so helped when we think they are
carrying us in their faith. But there
is One whose prayers never fail to be fulfilled
and who is more willing to give them to us
than any human friend. His one business at
God's right hand is to make intercession for
His people, and we are simply coming in the
line of His own appointment and His own definite
promise and provision, when we lay our
burdens upon Him and claim His advocacy
without doubt or fear. <q>Seeing then that we
have a great High Priest that is passed into the
heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us come
boldly to the throne of grace that we may find
help in time of need.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Like a golden censer glowing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Filled with burning odors rare,</l>
<l>All my heart is upward flowing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In a cloud of ceaseless prayer.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>O'er the heavenly altar bending,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Jesus interceding stands,</l>
<l>All our prayers to heaven ascending,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Reach the Father through His hands.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='352'/><anchor id='Pg352'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 12.</head>

<p>
<q>To abide in the flesh is more needful for you, and
having this confidence, I know that I shall abide</q>
(Phil. i. 24, 25).
</p>

<p>
One of the most blessed things about divine
healing is that the strength it
brings is holy strength, and finds its
natural and congenial outflow in holy
acts and exercises.
</p>

<p>
Mere natural strength seeks its gratification
in natural pleasures and activities, but the
strength of Christ leads us to do as Christ
would do, and to seek our congenial employment
in His holy service.
</p>

<p>
The life of Christ in a human body saves it
from a thousand temptations to self-indulgence
and sin, and not only gives us strength for
higher service, but also a desire for it, and puts
into it a zest and spring which gives it double
power.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help us to-day to claim Thy life and
then give it for the help of others.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Have you found the branch of healing?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Pass it on.</l>
<l>Have you felt the Spirit's sealing,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Pass it on.</l>
<l>'Twas for this His mercy sought you,</l>
<l>And to all His fulness brought you,</l>
<l>By the precious blood that bought you,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Pass it on.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='353'/><anchor id='Pg353'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 13.</head>

<p>
<q>He that abideth in Me and I in him the same
bringeth forth much fruit for apart from Me ye can
do nothing</q> (John xv. 5).
</p>

<p>
So familiar are the vine and the branches,
it is not necessary to explain; only the
branches and the vine are one. The
vine does not say, I am the central
trunk running up and you are the little branches;
but I am the whole thing, and you are the
whole thing. He counts us partakers of His
nature. <q>Apart from Me ye can do nothing.</q>
The husband and the wife, and many more figures
contribute to this marvelous Christ teaching,
which has no parallel, no precedent in any
other teaching under the sun; that Christ is the
life of His people, and that we are absolutely
linked with and dependent upon Him. All
other systems teach how much man is and may
become. Christianity shows how a man must
lose all he is if he would come into full unity
with Christ in His life.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me this day to abide in Thee.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Oh! what a wonderful place</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Jesus has given to me!</l>
<l>Saved by His glorious grace,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>I may be even as He.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='354'/><anchor id='Pg354'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 14.</head>

<p>
<q>Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree</q>
(Isa. lv. 13).
</p>

<p>
Difficulties and obstacles are
God's challenges to faith. When hindrances
confront us in the path of duty
we are to recognize them as vessels
for faith to fill with the fulness and all-sufficiency
of Jesus, and as we go forward, simply
and fully trusting Him, we may be tested, we
may have to wait and let patience have her
perfect work, but we shall surely find at last
the stone rolled away, and the Lord waiting
to render unto us double for our time of testing,
and fulfil the promise, <q>Instead of the
thorn shall come up the fir tree, instead of the
brier the myrtle tree, and it shall be to the
Lord for an everlasting sign that shall not be
cut off.</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Oft there comes a wondrous message</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>When my hopes are growing dim;</l>
<l>I can hear it through the darkness,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Like some sweet and far-off hymn.</l>
<l>Nothing is too hard for Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>No man can work like Him.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>When my way is closed in darkness</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And my foes are fierce and grim,</l>
<l>Still it sings above the conflict</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Like some glad, victorious hymn:</l>
<l>Nothing is too hard for Jesus,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>No man can work like Him.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='355'/><anchor id='Pg355'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 15.</head>

<p>
<q>When my heart is overwhelmed lead me to the
Rock that is higher than I</q> (Ps. lxi. 2).
</p>

<p>
The end of self is the beginning of God.
<q>When the tale of bricks is doubled
then comes Moses.</q> That is the old
Hebrew way of putting it. <q>Man's
extremity is God's opportunity.</q> That is the
proverbial expression of it. <q>When my heart
is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is
higher than I.</q> That is David's way of expressing
it. <q>We have no might against this
company, neither know we what to do.</q> No
might, no light&mdash;<q>but our eyes are upon Thee,</q>
that was Jehoshaphat's experience of it. <q>Mine
eyes fail with looking upward. I am oppressed,
Lord, undertake for me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>When I had great trouble I always went to
God and was wondrously carried through; but
in my little trials I used to try to manage them
myself, and often most signally failed.</q> So
Miss Havergal has expressed the experience of
many a Christian. God wants us <q>at our wit's
end,</q> and then He will show His wisdom, love
and power. How often we ask God to help,
and then begin to count up the human probabilities!
God's very blessings become a hindrance
to us if we look from Him to them.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='356'/><anchor id='Pg356'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 16.</head>

<p>
<q>I will restore to you the years that the locust hath
eaten, the canker worm and the caterpillar and the
palmer worm, my great army, which I sent among you</q>
(Joel ii. 25).
</p>

<p>
A friend said to me once: <q>I have got
to reap what I sowed, for God has
said: <q>Whatsoever a man soweth, that
shall he also reap.</q> Then why don't
you apply this in the spiritual world, and compel
the sinner to pay the penalty of his sins?</q>
</p>

<p>
Christ has borne this penalty, and the same
Christ has borne the natural penalties, too, and
delivered us out of condemnation in every
sense. Physical sufferings come to us, but not
under the law of retribution, but only as a Divine
discipline. Every penalty has been fulfilled
by Christ and every law satisfied, and so
far as we can have risen with Him into the
plane of spiritual and eternal life, we are lifted
above the mere realm of law, and we enter into
the full effects of His complete satisfaction of
every claim against us. So it is true that even
the wreck that sin has brought upon our physical
and temporal life is removed by His great
atonement, and the promise is made real to us,
<q>I will restore to you the years that the locust
hath eaten.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='357'/><anchor id='Pg357'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 17.</head>

<p>
<q>Be careful for nothing</q> (Phil. iv. 6).
</p>

<p>
What is the way to lay your burden
down? <q>Take My yoke upon you,
and learn of Me; for I am meek and
and lowly of heart, and ye shall find
rest unto your souls.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>For My yoke is easy and My burden is
light.</q> That is the way to take His burden up.
You will find that His burden is always light.
Yours is a very heavy one. Happy day if you
have exchanged burdens and laid down your
loads at His blessed feet to take up His own
instead. God wants to rest His workers, and
He is too kind to put His burden on hearts
that are already bowed down with their own
weight of cares.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Are you fearing, fretting or repining?</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>You can never know God's perfect peace.</l>
<l>On His bosom all your weight reclining.</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>All your anxious doubts and cares must cease.</l>
<l>Would you know the peace that God has given?</l>
<l>Would you find the very joy of heaven?</l>
<l>Be careful for nothing,</l>
<l>Be prayerful for everything,</l>
<l>Be thankful for anything,</l>
<l>And the peace of God that passeth understanding</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Shall keep your mind and heart.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='358'/><anchor id='Pg358'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 18.</head>

<p>
<q>The faith of the Son of God</q> (Gal. ii. 20).
</p>

<p>
Faith is hindered most of all by what
we call <q>our faith,</q> and fruitless struggles
to work out a faith which is but
a make-believe and a desperate trying
to trust God, which must ever come short of
His vast and glorious promises. The truth is
that the only faith that is equal to the stupendous
promises of God and the measureless needs
of our life, is <q>the faith of God</q> Himself, the
very trust which He will breathe into the heart
which intelligently expects Him as its power
to believe, as well as its power to love, obey, or
perform any other exercise of the new life.
</p>

<p>
Blessed be His name! He has not given us
a chain which reaches within a single link of
our poor helpless heart, but that one last link
is fatal to all the chain. Nay, the last link, the
one that fastens on the human side is as Divine
as the link that binds the chain of promise in
the heavens. <q>Have the faith of God,</q> is His
great command. <q>I live by the faith of the
Son of God</q> is the victorious testimony of one
who had proved it true.
</p>

<p>
Lord, teach me to have the faith of the Son
of God.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='359'/><anchor id='Pg359'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 19.</head>

<p>
<q>God giveth grace unto the humble</q> (James iv. 6).
</p>

<p>
One of the marks of highest worth is
deep lowliness. The shallow nature,
conscious of its weakness and insufficiency,
is always trying to advertise
itself and make sure of its being appreciated.
The strong nature, conscious of its strength,
is willing to wait and let its work be made
manifest in due time. Indeed, the truest natures
are so free from all self-consciousness
and self-consideration that their object is not
to be appreciated, understood or recompensed,
but to accomplish their true mission and fulfil
the real work of life.
</p>

<p>
One of the most suggestive expressions used
respecting the Lord Jesus is given by the evangelist
John in the thirteenth chapter of His
Gospel, where we read, <q>Jesus, knowing that
He came from God, and went to God, riseth
from supper and began to wash the disciples'
feet.</q> It was because He knew His high dignity
and His high destiny that He could stoop
to the lowest place and that place could not
degrade Him.
</p>

<p>
God give to us the Divine insignia of heavenly
rank, a bowed head, a meek and lowly spirit.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='360'/><anchor id='Pg360'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 20.</head>

<p>
<q>That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ
to the Gentiles, ministering the Gospel of God</q>
(Rom. xv. 16).
</p>

<p>
This is a very beautiful and practical
conception of missionary work. There
is a great difference in being consecrated
to our God. We may be consecrated
to our work and consecrated to our God.
We may be consecrated and fitted to do missionary
work, and utterly fail, if He should
call us to do something different. But when
we are consecrated to Him, we shall be ready
for anything He may require of us, and be
as well qualified to serve Him by the sick
bed of a brother, or even in the secular duties
of home, as in standing in the pulpit or leading
a soul to Christ.
</p>

<p>
Paul's conception is holy work, or a special
sacrifice, and directly unto Christ, and Christ
alone; and he stood as one should stand at the
altar of incense, lifting up with holy hands the
Gentile nations unto God, and laying all his
work like fragrant incense before the throne,
pleased only with what would please his Master,
and stand the test of His inspection, and
the seal of His approval in that glorious day.
</p>

<p>
This is the spirit of true service.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='361'/><anchor id='Pg361'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 21.</head>

<p>
<q>Give us day by day our daily bread</q> (Luke xi. 3).
</p>

<p>
It is very hard to live a lifetime at once,
or even a year, but it is delightfully easy
to live a day at a time. Day by day the
manna fell, so day by day we may live
upon the heavenly bread, and live out our life
for Him. Let us, breath by breath, moment
by moment, step by step, abide in Him, and,
just as we take care of the days, He will take
care of the years.
</p>

<p>
God has given two precious promises for
the days. <q>As thy days so shall thy strength
be,</q> is His ancient covenant, and the literal
translation of our Master's parting words to
His disciples is, <q>Lo, I am with you all the
days, even unto the end of the age.</q>
</p>

<p>
Like the little water spider that goes down
beneath the waters of the pool enclosed in a
bubble of air, and there builds its nest and
rears its young, and lives its little life in that
bright sphere down beneath the slimy pool, so
let us in this dark world shut ourselves in with
Christ in the little circle of each returning day,
and so abide in Him, breathing the air of heaven
and living in His love.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='362'/><anchor id='Pg362'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 22.</head>

<p>
<q>My tongue also shall talk of Thy righteousness all
the day long</q> (Ps. lxxi. 24).
</p>

<p>
It is a simple law of nature, that air always
comes in to fill a vacuum. You
can produce a draught at any time, by
heating the air until it ascends, and then
the cold air rushes in to supply its place. And
so we can always be filled with the Holy Spirit
by providing a vacuum. This breath is dependent
upon exhausting the previous breath
before you can inhale a fresh one. And so we
must empty our hearts of the last breath of the
Holy Spirit that we have received, for it becomes
exhausted the moment we have received
it, and we need a new supply, to prevent spiritual
asphyxia.
</p>

<p>
We must learn the secret of breathing out,
as well as breathing in. Now, the breathing in
will continue if the other part is rightly done.
One of the best ways to make room for the
Holy Spirit is to recognize the needs that
come into the life as vacuums for Him to fill,
and we shall find plenty of needs all around
us to be filled, and as we pour out our lives in
holy service, He will pour His in&mdash;in full
measure.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Jesus, empty me and fill me</l>
<l>With Thy fulness to the brim.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='363'/><anchor id='Pg363'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 23.</head>

<p>
<q>Out of the spoils won in battles, did they dedicate
to maintain the house of the Lord</q> (I. Chron. xxvi.
27).
</p>

<p>
Physical force is stored in the bowels
of the earth, in the coal mines, which
came from the fiery heat that burned
up great forests in ancient ages. And
so spiritual force is stored in the depths of our
being, through the very sufferings which we
cannot understand. Some day we shall find
that the deliverance we have won from these
trials were preparing us to become true <q>Great
Hearts</q> in life's Pilgrim's Progress, and to lead
our fellow pilgrims triumphantly through trial
to the city of the King.
</p>

<p>
But let us never forget that the source of
helping other people must be victorious suffering.
The whining, murmuring pang never
does anybody any good. Paul did not carry a
cemetery with him, but a chorus choir of victorious
praise, and the harder the trial, the
more he trusted and rejoiced, shouting from
the very altar of sacrifice, <q>Yea, and if I be
offered upon the service and sacrifice of your
faith, I joy and rejoice with you all.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me this day to draw strength from
all that comes to me.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='364'/><anchor id='Pg364'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 24.</head>

<p>
<q>And seekest thou great things for thyself? Seek
them not; for behold I will bring evil upon all flesh,
saith the Lord; but thy life will I give unto thee for
a prey in all places whither thou goest</q> (Jer. xlv. 5).
</p>

<p>
A promise given for hard places, and
a promise of safety and life in the
midst of tremendous pressure, a life
for a prey.
</p>

<p>
It may well adjust itself to our own times,
which are growing harder as we near the end
of the age, and the tribulation times.
</p>

<p>
What is the meaning of <q>a life for a prey</q>?
It means a life snatched out of the jaws of the
destroyer, as David snatched the lamb from the
lion. It means not a place of security, or of
removal from the noise of the battle, and the
presence of our foes, but it means a table in
the midst of our enemies, a shelter from the
storm, a fortress amid the foe, a life preserved
in the face of continual pressure, Paul's healing
when pressed out of measure so that he
despaired even of life, Paul's Divine help when
the thorn remained, but the power of Christ
rested upon him and the grace of Christ was
sufficient.
</p>

<p>
Lord, give me my life for a prey, and in
the hardest places help me to-day to be victorious.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='365'/><anchor id='Pg365'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 25.</head>

<p>
<q>I bring you glad tidings</q> (Luke ii. 10).
</p>

<p>
A Christmas spirit should be a spirit
of humanity. Beside that beautiful
object lesson on the Manger, the Cradle,
and the lowly little child, what
Christian heart can ever wish to be proud? It
is a spirit of joy. It is right that these should
be glad tidings, for, <q>Behold, I bring you glad
tidings of great joy which shall be to all people.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is a spirit of love. It should be the joy
that comes from giving joy to others. The
central fact of Christmas is the Christ who
loved us, and came to live among us and die
for us, and he or she has no right to share its
joys who is living for himself or herself alone.
</p>

<p>
Love is always sacrificial, and so the Christmas
spirit will call us to a glad and full surrender,
first to God, and then the joyful sacrifice
of what we call our own for His glory and
the good of others.
</p>

<p>
The Christmas spirit is a spirit of worship.
It finds the Magi at His feet with their gold
and frankincense and myrrh. Let it find us
there, too.
</p>

<p>
The Christmas spirit is a spirit of missions.
Its glad tidings are for all people.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='366'/><anchor id='Pg366'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 26.</head>

<p>
<q>The Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy</q>
(James iv. 5).
</p>

<p>
This beautiful passage has been unhappily
translated in our Revised Version:
<q>The Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth
to envy.</q> It ought to be, <q>The Spirit
that dwelleth in us loveth us to jealousy.</q> It is
the figure of a love that suffers because of its
intense regard for the loved object.
</p>

<p>
The Holy Ghost is so anxious to accomplish
in us and for us the highest will of God, and
to receive from us the truest love for Christ,
our Divine Husband, that He becomes jealous
when in any way we disappoint Him, or divide
His love with others.
</p>

<p>
Therefore, it is said in the preceding passage,
<q>Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know
ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity
with God?</q>
</p>

<p>
Oh, shall we grieve so kind a Friend? Shall
we disappoint so loving a Husband? Shall we
not meet the blessed Holy Spirit with the love
He brings us, and give in return our undivided
and unbounded affection?
</p>

<p>
Was there ever a Bridegroom so loving seeking
our heart to gain?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='367'/><anchor id='Pg367'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 27.</head>

<p>
<q>He sent forth the dove which returned not again
unto him</q> (Gen. viii. 12).
</p>

<p>
First, we have the dove going forth
from the ark, and finding no rest upon
the wild and drifting waste of sin and
judgment. This represents the Old
Testament period, perhaps, when the Holy
Ghost visited this sinful world, but could find
no resting-place, and went back to the bosom
of God.
</p>

<p>
Next, we have the dove going forth and returning
with the olive leaf in her mouth, the
symbol and the pledge of peace and reconciliation,
the sign that judgment was passed and
peace was returning. Surely this may beautifully
represent the next stage of the Holy
Spirit's manifestation, as going forth in the
ministry and death of Jesus Christ, to proclaim
reconciliation to a sinful world.
</p>

<p>
There is a third stage, when, at length, the
dove goes forth from the ark and returns no
more; but it makes the world its home, and
builds its nest amid the habitations of men.
This is the third and present stage of the Holy
Spirit's blessed work. Let us welcome the
Dove to a nest in our hearts.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='368'/><anchor id='Pg368'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 28.</head>

<p>
<q>The Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them
that obey Him</q> (Acts v. 32).
</p>

<p>
We can only know and prove the fulness
of the Spirit as we step out into
the larger purposes and plans of
Christ for the world.
</p>

<p>
Perhaps the chief reason why the Holy Spirit
has been so limited in His work in the hearts
of Christians, is the shameful neglect of the
unsaved and unevangelized world by the great
majority of the professed followers of Christ.
There are millions of professing Christians&mdash;and,
perhaps, real Christians&mdash;in the world,
who have never given one real, earnest thought
to the evangelization of the heathen world.
</p>

<p>
God will not give the Holy Spirit in His
fulness for the selfish enjoyment of any Christian.
His power is a great trust, which we
must use for the benefit of others and for the
evangelization of the lost and sinful world.
Not until the people of God awake to understand
His real purpose for the salvation of
men, will the Church ever know the fulness of
her Pentecost. God's promised power must
lie along the line of duty, and as we obey the
command, we shall receive His promise in his
fulness.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me to understand Thy plan.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='369'/><anchor id='Pg369'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 29.</head>

<p>
<q>I have not shunned to declare unto you all the
counsel of God</q> (Acts xx. 27).
</p>

<p>
It is probable that God lets every human
being, that crosses our path, meet us, in
order that we may have the opportunity
of leaving some blessing in his path, and
dropping into his heart and life some influence
that will draw him nearer to God. It would
be blessed, indeed, if we could meet every immortal
soul, at last, that we have ever touched
in the path of life, and truly say, <q>I am pure
from the blood of all men.</q>
</p>

<p>
Beloved, is it so? The servant that works in
your household; the man that sat beside you
in the train; the laborer that wrought for you,
and, above all, the members of your household
and family, your fellow-laborer in the shop or
factory, have you done your best to lead them
to Christ?
</p>

<p>
The early Christians regarded every situation
as an opportunity to witness for Christ.
Even when brought before kings and governors,
it never occurred to them that they were
to try to get free, but the Master's message to
them was, <q>It shall turn to you for a testimony.</q>
It was simply an occasion to preach
to kings and rulers, whom otherwise they
could not reach.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='370'/><anchor id='Pg370'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 30.</head>

<p>
<q>That God would fulfil in you all the good pleasure
of His goodness, and the work of faith with power</q>
(II. Thess. i. 11).
</p>

<p>
Our God is looking to-day for pattern
men, and when He gets a true sample,
it is very easy to reproduce it in a
thousand editions, and multiply it in
other lives without limitation.
</p>

<p>
All the experiences of life come to us as
tests, and as we meet them, our loving Father
is watching with intense and jealous love, to
see us overcome, and if we fail He is deeply
disappointed, and our adversary is filled with
joy.
</p>

<p>
We are a gazing-stock continually for angels
and principalities, and every step we take
is critical and decisive for something in our
eternal future.
</p>

<p>
When Abraham went forth that morning to
Mount Moriah, it was an hour of solemn probation,
and when he came back he was one of
God's tested men, with the stamp of His eternal
approbation. God could say, <q>I know him,
that he will do judgment and justice, that the
Lord may bring upon Abraham all that He
hath spoken.</q>
</p>

<p>
God is looking for such men to-day. Lord,
help me to be such an one.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='371'/><anchor id='Pg371'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December 31.</head>

<p>
<q>I pray not that Thou shouldst take them out of
the world, but that Thou shouldst keep them from
the evil</q> (John xvii. 15).
</p>

<p>
He wants us here for some higher purpose
than mere existence. That purpose
is nothing else than to represent
Him to the world, to be the messengers
of His Gospel and His will to men, and by
our lives to exhibit to them the true life, and
teach them how to live it themselves.
</p>

<p>
He is representing us yonder, and our one
business is to represent Him here. We are
just as truly sent into this world to represent
Him as if we had gone to China as the ambassador
of the American Government.
</p>

<p>
While engaged in the secular affairs of life,
it is simply that we may represent Him there,
carry on His business, and have means to use
for His affairs. He came here from another
realm, and with a special message, and when
His work was done He was called to go home
to His Father's dwelling-place and His own.
</p>

<p>
Lord, help me to worthily represent Thee.
</p>

<lg>
<l>And carry music in our heart</l>
<l>Through busy street and wrangling mart;</l>
<l>Plying our daily task with busier feet,</l>
<l>Because our souls a heavenly strain repeat.</l>
</lg>

</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
